Winkler Chad

Winkler Chad
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Chad Winkler
Trumpet
Susan S. Greer Memorial Chair
Chad Winkler joined the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra as fourth/utility trumpet in November 2008 and has been featured as soloist with the Pittsburgh Symphony. Prior to winning the PSO position, Winkler held positions with the Wheeling Symphony, the West Virginia Symphony, and the Erie Philharmonic. He has performed with the orchestras of Indianapolis, Cincinnati, and Detroit as guest principal trumpet, and has also performed with the orchestras of San Francisco, Minnesota, Honolulu, Louisville, and Jacksonville, as well as acting principal trumpet with the orchestras of the Pittsburgh Ballet and Pittsburgh Opera. Winkler is also principal trumpet of the Lakeside Symphony Orchestra in Lakeside, Ohio.
Winkler has led masterclasses at the University of Michigan, Carnegie Mellon University, Duquesne University, Butler University, West Virginia University, and the Conservatory of Music in Puerto Rico. Winkler has taught at the Masterworks Festival in Spartanburg, SC and the Eastman Trumpet Institute in Rochester, NY. Winkler also has a home studio of several middle and high school students.
Winkler won the National Trumpet Competition in 1995, 1998, and 2000. In 2013, he was invited to perform as guest soloist at the National Trumpet Competition.
In 2020-21, Winkler began a project of recording standard trumpet repertoire, where he plays both the trumpet solo and piano accompaniment.
Originally from Morgantown, West Virginia, Winkler earned his Bachelor of Music degree from West Virginia University, where he studied with his father, Dr. John Winkler. Winkler earned his Master of Music degree from Duquesne University, where he studied with George Vosburgh, retired Pittsburgh Symphony principal trumpet.
Chad and his wife Elissa, who is Director of Music in Worship at Beverly Heights Church, live in Mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania, with their son, Hudson, and daughter, Selah.
Chad Winkler on SoundCloud
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.