Multi-Platinum-Jamaican Artist Shaggy Announces the World Premiere of His "Mr. Symphonic" Show With the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra

Multi-Platinum-Jamaican Artist Shaggy Announces the World Premiere of His "Mr. Symphonic" Show With the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Saul Markowitz, Markowitz Communications,
412-977-8517
/
Saul@MarkowitzCommunications.com
MULTI-PLATINUM JAMAICAN ARTIST SHAGGY ANNOUNCES THE WORLD PREMIERE OF HIS ‘MR. SYMPHONIC” SHOW WITH THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
GRAMMY Award-Winning Star Will Perform His Biggest Hits Plus Selections from the Diverse History of Reggae Music
Feb. 26, 2025 at Heinz Hall Tickets on Sale Now
PITTSBURGH, PA
— Oct. 22, 2024 — Get ready for an unforgettable night as Jamaican icon and multi-GRAMMY-Award winning artist SHAGGY lights up Heinz Hall on February 26, 2025 for the world premiere of Mr. Symphonic - an orchestral concert that pays tribute to the rich tapestry of reggae music, featuring Shaggy’s most iconic hits. Tickets are on sale now,
here
.
Jamaica's musical legacy and cultural reach is nothing short of legendary, and Shaggy will take you on a compelling journey through its evolution—from Mento and Ska to Rocksteady and modern Dancehall. This special performance will also include his chart-topping anthems such as “It Wasn’t Me,” “Angel,” and “Mr. Boombastic,” performed alongside his dynamic band and the formidable Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Mr. Symphonic offers a vibrant showcase of reggae classics reimagined for orchestra by renowned American composer David Serkin Ludwig featuring timeless tracks from Reggae masters such as Peter Tosh, Toots & The Maytals and Yellow Man tracing Reggae’s influence on R&B, Rock, Pop and Reggaetón.
Purchase your tickets today,
here
.
Discounted tickets are available for members of our armed forces. Please contact the ticket office for further details
(412.392.4900).
###
About Shaggy
Born Orville Richard Burrell and raised in Kingston, Jamaica, Shaggy got his start as an MC in New York City’s burgeoning dancehall scene soon after moving to Brooklyn in his teens. Not long after serving four years in the U.S. Marines (including two tours of duty in the Middle East as part of Operation Desert Storm), he inked his first record deal and quickly scored a global crossover smash with “Oh Carolina.”
As the only diamond-selling dancehall artist in music history, Shaggy, managed by Martin Kierszenbaum/Cherrytree Music Company, has sold more than 40 million album units to date, in addition to landing 8 singles on the Billboard Hot 100 and 7 albums on the Billboard 200 (including 4 in the top 40). He has received 2 Grammy Awards and is among the top 3 streamed reggae artists of all time on Spotify.
Facebook: @Shaggy, Instagram, TikTok & Twitter: @direalshaggy
About the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Now in its 129th season, the internationally acclaimed
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)
engages audiences of all ages through unparalleled live musical experiences, community collaborations, and educational programming that enrich every life with great music. The GRAMMY® Award-winning symphony has been led by worldwide acclaimed
Music Director Manfred Honeck
since 2008. Past music directors have included many of the greats, including Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, André Previn, Lorin Maazel, and Mariss Jansons.
The Pittsburgh Symphony has a long and illustrious history in the areas of recordings and live radio broadcasts dating back to the 1930s. Lauded as the Pittsburgh region’s international cultural ambassador, PSO has been invited to be part of premiere venues and festivals worldwide and has toured domestically and internationally since 1896. Heinz Hall, PSO’s home located at 600 Penn Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh, is also owned and operated by the Pittsburgh Symphony. Follow the Pittsburgh Symphony online at
pittsburghsymphony.org
, on
Facebook
, on
Instagram
, and on
YouTube
.
Digital Assets for Press (Shaggy photo credit: PARSONS)
# # #
Press Room
News
2018 Grammys
Press Releases
2023-2024
2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.