Safely Together

Safely Together
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Safely Together
Heinz Hall Health and Safety Policies
Updated for Week of 4.24.23
Community Level Category: Low
Welcome back to Heinz Hall! Heinz Hall is committed to providing an exemplary experience, prioritizing the safety and well-being of all who come to the hall. Owned and operated by the Pittsburgh Symphony, Heinz Hall is a vibrant performing arts center that welcomes everyone for diverse live performances and programs, and community and private events.
Now in its 50th season as the home of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, Heinz Hall has recently undergone the first of two summers of renovation that included expanding our box office and adding accessible doors. We also made significant investments to make your experience more comfortable and enjoyable, including excellent ventilation. We’re proud that Heinz Hall has earned the GBAC STAR™ accreditation, attesting to the Hall’s commitment to a program of the highest standards for cleaning and disinfection practices.
Following are Heinz Hall Vaccination and Mask Policies that are currently effective from April 24 through April 30, 2023.
Please check back here and on concert and event website pages for updates.
Mask Policy
With Allegheny County's current
COVID-19 Community Level
,
face masks are not required for audiences while attending a performance or event at Heinz Hall, unless otherwise stated.
Face masks will be required when the COVID-19 Community Level is categorized as "high."
PSO360 Policy
: Face masks will be required when Allegheny County's COVID-19 Community level is categorized as
"medium" or "high."
Masks will not be required when the community level is categorized as "low."
Vaccination Policy
At this time, patrons are not required to provide proof of vaccination for Pittsburgh Symphony performances and events. Other presenters and organizations might have separate requirements.
Here is what you can also expect
BEFORE YOU ARRIVE:
Ticketing:
Contact-free ticketing is available; printed tickets will also continue to be available.
WHEN YOU ARRIVE:
Security:
Our state-of-the art entrance screening system is a “free-flow” security system that allows patrons to walk through unimpeded.
Programs:
Digital programs are available in advance of Pittsburgh Symphony concerts; printed programs will also continue to be available.
Intermission
: Concert intermissions and bar service have resumed.
INSIDE THE HALL
Indoor Air Quality:
Through testing and investments, we've made sure that Heinz Hall has excellent ventilation and air quality.
Enhanced Cleaning:
Enhanced cleaning and disinfecting are used regularly throughout the Hall.
Touchless Faucets:
New touchless sinks have been added to restrooms, and hand sanitizer stations placed throughout the Hall for convenience.
GBAC Certification:
Heinz Hall is a recipient of the GBAC (Global Biorisk Advisory Council) Star Facility certification—a “gold star” standard for facilities that implement stringent protocols for cleaning, disinfection and infectious disease prevention.
We will continue to follow public health guidance and government requirements, and promptly communicate with patrons about any changes.
Frequently Asked Questions
I’m vaccinated. Why do I need to wear a mask when Allegheny County is at "medium or high" transmission level?
US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has published a three-tiered system that measures the level of community transmission in each county: low, medium, and high. Masks are optional for PSO concerts at times of "low" and "medium” community transmission on the date of the performance.  Masks are required when the community transmission level is categorized as "high." At all times, Heinz Hall is a “mask-friendly” venue, understanding that many in our community will want to wear a mask regardless of vaccination status.
We will continue to communicate with ticketholders about any changes in community transmission but also advise that patrons always carry a mask when attending Heinz Hall performances at this time. For information on the current level of Community Level in Allegheny County, please
visit the CDC
.
Some events are subject to exception from this rule and will require audience members to remain masked regardless of community spread. These shows will be noted as such at all points of ticket purchase, alerting buyers of the mask mandate. Ticket buyers will also be contacted by guest services to confirm attendance requirements prior to the event.
What if my child is too young and won’t wear a mask?
All patrons are required to wear a mask for Pittsburgh Symphony performances and events when Allegheny County is in a "medium or high" community transmission level, or if required by outside presenters.
I am not willing to take this step and would like a refund.
We will miss seeing you and are able to offer exchanges into future events, credits, or refunds. Please contact the Box Office at (412) 392-4900. Subscribers can always contact their Patron Service Representative.
View More Frequently Asked Questions →
*Events ​​​at Heinz Hall that are presented by outside organizations have their own ticketing policies and might also choose different requirements for masking and social distancing.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.