Berntsen Neal

Berntsen Neal
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Neal Berntsen
Trumpet
Neal Berntsen joined the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra trumpet section in March 1997, having been appointed at the invitation of Music Director Lorin Maazel in 1996. He is a native of Tacoma, Washington. He began his musical studies at age five playing the violin under the tutelage of his mother. By age eight, he advanced to the trumpet and ultimately received a Bachelor of Music from the University of Puget Sound and a Master of Music from Northwestern University. A former member of the Chicago Lyric Opera Orchestra and the Grant Park Symphony Orchestra, Berntsen has also performed as principal trumpet for the Ravinia Festival Orchestra, Chicago Chamber Orchestra, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, San Diego Symphony Orchestra and the Bamberg Sinfoniker in Germany. Other orchestral performances have included the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Boston Symphony Orchestra and Houston Symphony Orchestra.
Active as a chamber musician, Neal Berntsen is a member of the Pittsburgh Symphony Brass whose recordings, “Bach: The Art of Fugue” (1998), “A Christmas Concert” (2000), “The Spirit of Christmas” (2003) and “A Song of Christmas” (2008) were described as “...Awhirl with color and rhythmic vitality – quite irresistible on every count,” by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. The recordings contain numerous arrangements by Berntsen. Berntsen is also a founding member of the award-winning Asbury Brass Quintet (ABQ), about which Fanfare magazine stated, ”The quintet is] not only expert but musical...undeniable virtuosity.” The ABQ’s recording with Adolph Herseth is widely regarded as an all-time classic. Berntsen has toured Japan with members of the Chicago Symphony brass section as the Chicago Brass Soloists.
In 2017, Neal Berntsen gave the Pittsburgh premiere of James MacMillan’s concerto for trumpet, Seraph, performing with Resonance Works Orchestra with the composer in attendance. Under the baton of Keith Lockhart, Berntsen premiered and recorded Iranian-American composer Reza Vali’s “The Ancient Call” for micro-tonal trumpet and orchestra in 2015. Berntsen performed the piece on a specially modified trumpet, which enabled him to execute the Persian quarter tone scale. In 2018, his recording of “The Ancient Call” was named album of the year in Iran by Noise Magazine. Berntsen’s solo recording “Trumpet Voices” was released in November 2005. Critics describe the recording as “electric... an indispensable recording for anyone who appreciates great trumpet playing.”
As an educator, Neal Berntsen is Chair of the brass division in the School of Music at Carnegie Mellon University. Berntsen also serves on the faculty of Roosevelt University in Chicago. Berntsen has presented master classes and recitals around the world.
In summer 2009, Neal Berntsen began an association with the Brevard Music Center in Brevard, North Carolina. Berntsen serves as principal trumpet for the Brevard Music Center Orchestra, performs chamber music, teaches trumpet and coaches chamber music at the festival.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.