Dale Jeong

Dale Jeong
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Dale Jeong
Associate Principal Cellist
Born in Korea and raised in Toronto, Canada, Dale Jeong was appointed associate principal cellist of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra at age 21. Dale Jeong holds a Bachelor of Music from The Juilliard School in the studio of Clara Minhye Kim. Previously he was a full scholarship student at the Phil and Eli Taylor Performance Academy for Young Artists in the studio of David Hetherington and Joseph Johnson, both from the Toronto Symphony Orchestra.
Dale served as principal cello in the Juilliard Orchestra, Pacific Music Festival Orchestra, Taylor Academy Chamber Orchestra and Toronto Symphony Youth Orchestra. He was the assistant principal cello at Moritzburg Festival Orchestra in Dresden, Germany. Dale has performed as a soloist with numerous orchestras such as the Incheon Philharmonic Orchestra, Oakville Chamber Orchestra and Toronto Symphony Orchestra. In 2022, Dale was chosen by CBC Music as one of Canada’s top 30 classical musicians under the age of 30.
During the summer, Dale has attended Pacific Music Festival, Moritzburg Festival Academy, Toronto Summer Music, Yellowbarn Young Artists Program, Morningside Music Bridge, Orford Academy, and Domaine Forget. Passionate in chamber music, he has collaborated with various musicians such as Martin Beaver, Jennifer Stumm, Sharon Wei, Stephanie Gonely and Steven Dann. Dale has performed in many of theworld’s prestigious halls, including Carnegie Hall, Alice Tully Hall, Sapporo Concert Hall 'Kitara', and Suntory Hall in Japan.
Dale currently plays on a Canadian cello made by Guy Harrison. Previously he played on Caspar Strnad and Giovanni Grancino cellos, both generously on loan from the Juilliard School
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.