Heinz Hall Policies

Heinz Hall Policies
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Heinz Hall Policies
Heinz Hall, owned and operated by Pittsburgh Symphony Inc., is committed to the safety and well-being of all guests and patrons, and aims to provide a safe, comfortable and enjoyable entertainment experience.
YOU should expect:
To be treated in a professional and courteous manner by Heinz Hall personnel.
Clear communication from the venue staff and security regarding facility operations and emergency procedures.
Freedom from behavior detrimental to the experience of other guests.
WE should expect
:
Consumption of alcoholic beverages is in a responsible manner and in compliance with the law.
Patrons/guests are comfortable to feel they can report inappropriate behavior to an usher, event manager or security officer.
If you need to re-enter the venue a ticket or appropriate credential must be presented.
Smoking Policy
Heinz Hall is a smoke-free/vape-free facility.  (Smoking is permitted in the Heinz Hall Garden Plaza.)
Entrance Security Policy
All audience members are required to enter through state-of-the-art scanning equipment, designed both to enhance security and convenience. Heinz Hall selected a “free-flow” system which allows patrons to simply walk through unimpeded. There will be no need to remove coats or bags; cell phones and keys can remain in your pockets. Patrons using wheelchairs and mobility devices will be directed to enter via a door adjacent to the screening equipment where alternative screening will occur. Patrons with children in strollers may enter through the screening equipment.
Bag and Personal Belongings Policy
Heinz Hall reserves the right to search any bags entering the facility. Oversized bags must fit comfortably under a seat to ensure the safety of patrons entering or exiting seats and aisles. Bags failing to meet these requirements must be checked at which time a search will be conducted by security or returned to your vehicle. You are encouraged to leave personal computers and iPads at home, as they are required to be turned off during performances.
Food and Beverage Policy
Please note: when beverage service resumes, Heinz Hall cups with lids are available for purchase at the facility's bars.
Weapons
Policy
Weapons are not permitted in the venue and/or public spaces owned or operated by Pittsburgh Symphony Inc., including Heinz Hall.  Any item that could endanger public safety is considered a weapon for purposes of this policy. Violators of this policy may be subject to ejection from Heinz Hall and/or civil or criminal penalties. The only exception to this policy is sworn law enforcement personnel and private security officers employed and/or contracted by Pittsburgh Symphony Inc.
Costume Policy
Heinz Hall does not permit costume masks of any kind or facsimiles of weapons that would make other guests feel uncomfortable or detract from the concert experience.
Important Phone Numbers
In life-threatening emergencies - 911
Heinz Hall security officer - 412-906-6111
For information about specific concerts or general facility questions,
Box Office - 412-392-4900
Heinz Hall Management - 412-392-4844
Read more Frequently Asked Questions
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.