Peters Fujito Alison

Peters Fujito Alison
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Alison Peters Fujito
First Violin
Violinist Alison Peters Fujito, originally from Glencoe, Illinois, is proud to be a product of music in the public schools. She credits her high school orchestra director, Stanley Ackerman, with her love of violin and classical music. She began violin lessons in elementary school at her mother's suggestion, but thoroughly disliked practicing — until she played in string quartets and the four orchestras of New Trier East High School, directed by Ackerman.
She attended University of Cincinnati's College-Conservatory of Music as recipient of the Dorothy Richard Starling Fellowship, studying with Dorothy DeLay and Kurt Sassmanshaus and graduating summa cum laude. She received her Master of Music degree from The Julliard School, where she studied with DeLay and Hyo Kang. Other teachers included Wolfgang Schneiderhan, Jaquces Israelievitch, Blair Milton, Shmuel Ashkenasi, Linda Cerone and David Taylor.
After graduating from Julliard, Alison Fujito was hired by Gerard Schwarz for the first violin section of the Seattle Symphony, and in 1987, she was appointed to the first violin section of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra by Lorin Maazel.
Fujito has appeared as soloist with several orchestra, including the Pittsburgh Symphony on several occasions. She was a founding member of Roy Sonne's Ionian Chamber Players, has performed in several summer music festivals and, with some of her Pittsburgh Symphony colleagues, delights in performing string quartets at local schools.
Fujito is an advocate of the Suzuki method of teaching violin to all ages and is registered with the Suzuki Association of the Americas, having completed teacher training for books 1-4 with notable instructors such as Michele George and Ed Kreitman. She is a firm believer in the importance of instrumental music instruction in the public schools and has spoken at many school board meetings. She was formerly an adjunct violin instructor at Duquesne University, and currently enjoys providing assistance to the many fine public school string instructors in the Pittsburgh area.
Alison Fujito is married to Dr. Don Fujito, chemistry professor at LaRoche College. They are the proud and sleepless parents of three children, as well as three cats and a Border Collie/Newfoundland mix who likes to sleep on the feet of violin students.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.