Vasquez Joen

Vasquez Joen
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Joen Vasquez
Acting Associate Principal Viola
Joen Vasquez, the only violist ever to win the "Artists International" competition in New York, recently became the only musician to twice win Pittsburgh's coveted Passamaneck Award. He has performed in recital on the Y series at Carnegie Music Hall in Pittsburgh.
Mr. Vasquez comes from a family of six sibling musicians and holds an Master of Arts degree from The Juilliard School where he studied with Margaret Pardee. He has received Diplomas Di Merito and D'Honore from Academia Chigianna where he studied with Bruno Giuranna.
Mr. Vasquez has won many other competitions and awards including: First Prize in Washington's International Music Competition in 1982; Bronze Medal in the 1983 Geneva International Viola Competition; Winner of the Augusta Symphony Competition for strings in 1980; Finalist of the 1982 International Competition for Viola in Munich; and Winner of the Pittsburgh Concert Society Auditions in 1991.
Mr. Vasquez has performed as soloist with many orchestras in the Americas, including the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, the Windsor, Ontario Orchestra, the Venezuela Symphony, the Bogota Philharmonic in Colombia, the Sodre Orchestra in Uruguay, the Carcas Filarmonica in Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic, Solistas De Venezuela in the 1985 Casals Festival in Prades, France, and the Maracaibo Symphony in the Kennedy Center and Victoria, Canada. Additionally, he has premiered many Concertos written for him including the Penderecki Viola Concerto in 1983.
Mr. Vasquez won the audition for Assistant Principal Violist of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 1985, a position which he presently continues to hold. Mr. Vasquez is a founding member of the string quartet "Il Quattro" and can be heard on Alanna Records.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.