Privacy Policy

Privacy Policy
Home
about
vendors
map
FAQS
buy tickets
Privacy Policy
Effective date: 2024-01-05
Updated on: 2024-01-05
This Privacy Policy explains the policies of Pittsburgh Taco Festival on the collection 
and use of the information we collect when you access https://www.pghtacofest.com/ (the “Service”). This Privacy Policy describes your 
privacy rights and how you are protected under privacy laws.
By using our Service, you are consenting to the collection and use of your information in accordance
    with this Privacy Policy. Please do not access or use our Service if you do not consent to the collection
    and use of your information as outlined in this Privacy Policy. This Privacy Policy has been created with
    the help of
CookieScript Privacy Policy Generator
.
Pittsburgh Taco Festival is authorized to modify this Privacy Policy at any time.
This may occur without prior notice.
Pittsburgh Taco Festival will post the revised Privacy Policy on the https://www.pghtacofest.com/ website
Collection and Use of Your Personal Information
Information We Collect
When using our Service, you will be prompted to provide us with personal information used to
contact or identify you. https://www.pghtacofest.com/ collects the following information:
Usage Data
Name
Email
Mobile Number
Usage Data includes the following:
Internet Protocol (IP) address of computers accessing the site
Web page requests
Referring web pages
Browser used to access site
Time and date of access
How We Collect Information
https://www.pghtacofest.com/ collects and receives information from you in the following manner:
When you fill a registration form or otherwise submit your personal information.
When you interact with our Service.
From external, public sources.
Your information will be stored for up to 365 days after it is
no longer required to provide you the services. Your information may be retained for longer periods for
reporting or record- keeping in accordance with applicable laws. Information which does not identify you
personally may be stored indefinitely.
How We Use Your Information
https://www.pghtacofest.com/ may use your information for the following purposes:
Providing and maintaining our Service,
as well as monitoring the usage of our Service.
To contact you.
Pittsburgh Taco Festival will contact you by email, phone, SMS, or another form of
electronic communication related to the functions, products, services, or security updates when
necessary or reasonable.
Marketing and promotional initiatives.
Pittsburgh Taco Festival will use non-specific information gathered
from you in order to improve our marketing efforts.
How We Share Your Information
Pittsburgh Taco Festival will share your information, when applicable, in the following situations:
With your consent.
Pittsburgh Taco Festival will share your information for any purpose with your explicit
consent.
Third-party Sharing
Any third party we share your information with must disclose the purpose for which they intend to use
your information. They must retain your information only for the duration disclosed when requesting or
receiving said information. The third-party service provider must not further collect, sell, or use your
personal information except as necessary to perform the specified purpose.
Your information may be shared to a third-party for reasons including:
Analytics information.
Your information might be shared with online
analytics tools in order to track and analyse website traffic.
If you choose to provide such information during registration or 
otherwise, you are giving Pittsburgh Taco Festival permission to use, share, and store that information in a manner consistent with 
this Privacy Policy.
Your information may be disclosed for additional reasons, including:
Complying with applicable laws, regulations, or court orders.
Responding to claims that your use of our Service violates third-party rights.
Enforcing agreements you make with us, including this Privacy Policy.
Cookies
Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer by websites that you visit. Websites use
cookies to help users navigate efficiently and perform certain functions. Cookies that are required for
the website to operate properly are allowed to be set without your permission. All other cookies need
to be approved before they can be set in the browser.
Strictly necessary cookies.
Strictly necessary cookies allow core website functionality such as
user login and account management. The website cannot be used properly without strictly necessary cookies.
Performance cookies.
Performance cookies are used to see how visitors use the website, eg.
analytics cookies. Those cookies cannot be used to directly identify a certain visitor.
Targeting cookies.
Targeting cookies are used to identify visitors between different websites, eg. content partners, banner networks. Those cookies may be used by companies to build a profile
of visitor interests or show relevant ads on other websites.
Functionality cookies.
Functionality cookies are used to remember visitor information on the
website, eg. language, timezone, enhanced content.
Unclassified cookies.
Unclassified cookies are cookies that do not belong to any other category
or are in the process of categorization.
You can change your consent to cookie usage below.
Security
Your information’s security is important to us. https://www.pghtacofest.com/ 
utilizes a range of security measures to prevent the misuse, loss, or alteration of the information you have given us. 
However, because we cannot guarantee the security of the information you provide us, you must access our service at your
own risk.
Pittsburgh Taco Festival is not responsible for the performance of websites 
operated by third parties or your interactions with them. When you leave this website, we recommend you review the 
privacy practices of other websites you interact with and determine the adequacy of those practices.
Contact Us
For any questions, please contact us through the following methods:
Name: Pittsburgh Taco Festival
Address: 1040 Downlook St Pittsburgh PA USA 15201
Email: craig@pghtacofestival.com
Website: https://www.pghtacofest.com/
Phone: (412) 860-9235
Copyright © Pittsburgh Taco Festival 2024 | All Rights Reserved |
PRIVACY POLICY
| Website by
REFRESH