Pucker up, Pittsburgh: Picklesburgh is back and bigger than ever! - Picklesburgh

Pucker up, Pittsburgh: Picklesburgh is back and bigger than ever! - Picklesburgh
Visit
Getting Here
Festival Maps
Accessibility
Festival Schedules
Vendors
Entertainment
Gherkin Games
Li’l Gherkins KidsPlay Activity Area
Taste of Picklesburgh
Get Involved
News
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Pucker up, Pittsburgh: Picklesburgh is back and bigger than ever!
For the first time, Picklesburgh will expand for 3 days later in July. The Roberto Clemente Bridge in Downtown Pittsburgh will transform into Picklesburgh, highlighted by the beloved, giant flying Heinz pickle balloon. The event will be Friday, July 20 and Saturday July 21, from noon – 10:00 p.m. and Sunday, July 22 from noon to 6:00 p.m. with free admission.
Produced by the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership (PDP), and presented by Heinz, Picklesburgh is a culinary celebration that goes beyond the dill pickle to include international dishes and handcrafted foods from local chefs that feature house-cure pickled vegetables; informative how-to demonstrations at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Demo booth which embrace the farm-to-table movement and the rising popularity of DIY canning; fun pickle themed merchandise, live music on Giant Eagle’s Downtown Sound stage, a “Li’l Gherkins” area with free kids’ activities, and even a competitive pickle juice drinking contest. More information about Picklesburgh can be found at www.picklesburgh.com.
In addition to a third day of the fantastically dillicious festival, organizers are excited to announce that both Southern Tier Brewery and Great Lakes Brewery will offer pickled beers for sale (and there will be delicious non-pickly brews for the sourpusses in the crowd)! And be sure to stay tuned for an upcoming announcement touting a new spirit that will be sure to pickle the fancy of lovers of all things brined. Beginning at 5:00p.m. Friday and Saturday, and noon on Sunday, several restaurants will offer a selection of artisan cocktails, many featuring pickled ingredients.
Also new for 2018, the festival organizers have worked DILLigently to ease visitor congestion by expanding the footprint of the overall festival toward the North Shore, introducing some queue management so lines are less likely to impede foot traffic, and of course, adding an additional weekend day for families to enjoy.
According to Jeremy Waldrup, president and CEO of the Picklesburgh Downtown Partnership, “We continue to be blown away by the creativity shown in our local culinary scene. Each year our vendors continue to outdo themselves adding more unique and inspired items to their offerings. We expect 2018 to our biggest year yet!”
Please see the list of vendors and their offering below to learn more about all the great food and merchandise.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Demo Tent
Home canning and pickling is becoming increasingly popular and Picklesburgh will once again include a Demo Area presented by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, including demos by food writer Gretchen McKay. Additionally a wide range of demonstrations will include simple demonstrations of home pickling cucumbers, dilly beans, and watermelon rinds, along with more inventive recipes that include pickled stone fruits, kimchi, and sauerkrauts. Members of Ferment Pittsburgh will be on-hand sharing their expertise, along with many other pickle pros.
The Post-Gazette will also be helping to amplify all of the pickled news that’s fit to print with their PG NewsSlide app, including a special Picklesburgh section featuring all things pickled, including recipes, interactive games, news, and even live streaming of the much-anticipated Pickle Juice Drinking Contest finale!
Giant Eagle Downtown Sound Stage
No celebration would be complete without music, and Giant Eagle is sharing their dilly love by presenting the Picklesburgh stage, which will provide the live soundtrack for the Festival. The stage will feature a cross section of local bands and musical genres encouraging everyone to shake their pickled booties! The commitment to live local music is an extension of the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership’s Downtown Sound series, dedicated to enhancing the music scene throughout the Downtown neighborhood. The entertainment schedule is:
Friday, July 20
12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Dan Bubien & The Delta Struts
1:30 – 2:30 p.m. Sierra Sellers
3:00 – 4:00 p.m. Devin Moses & The Saved
4:30 – 5:30 p.m. William Matheny
6:00 – 7:00 p.m. Mars Jackson
7:30 – 8:30 p.m. Marc Reismen and the Strong Way Band
9:00 – 10:00 p.m. Buffalo Rose
Saturday, July 21
12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Kahone Concept
1:30 – 2:30 p.m. Dinosoul
3:00 – 4:00 p.m. Clara Kent
4:30 – 5:30 p.m. Miss Freddye
6:00 – 7:00 p.m. Benji
7:30 – 8:30 p.m. Townsppl
9:00 – 10:00 p.m. Lyndsey Smith
Sunday, July 22
12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Elias Khouri
1:30 – 2:30 p.m. Byron Nash & PlanB
3:00 – 4:00 p.m. Donora
4:30 – 5:30 p.m. LoFi Delph
Pickle Juice Drinking Contest
Immediately in front of the Giant Eagle stage will be the place to gather between musical sets on Saturday for the highly entertaining pickle juice drinking competition, with more than 60 participants downing a quart of pickle juice in pursuit of a $500 grand prize. Color commentary and band introductions will be provided by some of Pittsburgh’s favorite media personalities from media sponsors KDKA-TV, The CW, BOB-FM, and Q92.9.
Preliminary Pickle Juice Drinking heats will occur at 1:00, 2:30, 4:00, 5:30, and 7:00 p.m. with the grand finale, battle-royale occurring at 8:30 p.m. Contestants are currently being sought, please visit Picklesburgh.com to sign up for your chance at infamy. While advanced sign up is encouraged in previous years there have been room for walk-ups selected from the crowd – In fact, 2 of the last 3 winners were walk-ups!
Vendor Listing
Prepared Foods & Drinks
Aunt Carols Gourmet Dips – ready-to-eat pickles and dilly beans, served with gourmet dips in a variety of flavors
Bae Bae’s Kitchen – Korean inspired pickles and pickled toppings, featuring Grandma’s Kimchi, Napa Cabbage, White Radish, and Persian Cucumbers
BRGR – Festival favorite BRGR serves up gourmet burgers, pickled toppings, fried pickles and specialty cocktails
Coop DeVille – New from the Richard Deshantz Restaurant Group, serving up a pickled take on southern cuisine with their pickle brined fried chicken sandwiches – choose from Nashville Hot or Plain Jane and enjoy with a curated selection of specialty pickled cocktails and wine
Dina Colada Enterprises – Serving up pickle-inspired specialty drinks – Virgin Pickle Margaritas, Pickled Bubble Tea, and Pickle Smoothies – along with snacks such as dill pickle Oreos, pepperoni boats, and mini charcuterie boards (heavy on the pickles, of course)
Fabulous Homemade Cookies – Peanut Butter Pickle and Molasses Pickle Pepper cookies, Peanut Butter Pickle cupcakes, and Sauerkraut Brownies – all locally made from scratch
Gosia’s Pierogies a true Pittsburgh delicacy made from a secret family recipe originated in Poland & handed down from generation to generation – Gosia’s marries buttery mashed potatoes in a dumpling with swirls of dill pickle, sauerkraut, sweet cabbage, cheese, and more
The I’Dill Pickle – From the team at the Pittsburgh Irish Festival, The I’Dill Pickle is proud to present the pickle combinations you never knew you needed: bacon wrapped fried pickles, brie cheese stuffed pickles, “Dog in a Dill” hot dogs, and frozen limeade with a pickle twist
Le’s Oriental – Try their famous Pickle Eggrolls, Pickle on a Stick, or Kim-chi and Chicken on a Stick, plus fried rice, mac and cheese eggrolls, corn dogs, and fresh squeezed lemonade
Millie’s Ice Cream – Homemade ice cream and sorbet from Downtown’s favorite ice cream shop, featuring two pickle flavors created especially for Picklesburgh
Patti’s Pastries – Jumbo gourmet cupcakes in a range of flavors, featuring custom creations such as Dillicious (a dill pickle inspiration), Sweet N Heat (spicy and sweet Pickle), Pina Jalapeño (Pineapple and Pickled Jalapeño), and Beer N Kraut (Beer and Sauerkraut)
Penn Cove Eatery & The Warren Bar and Burrow – Downtown’s newest restaurant serves up tuna ceviche with pickled watermelon rind, dill pickle salmon sushi, plus a yellowtail, grapefruit, and pickled fennel poke bowl. Cocktails from the neighboring Warren Bar & Burrow include a pickled watermelon margarita, a Fred Collins with lemon, coriander, and pickled fennel, and the Picklesburgh Old Fashioned featuring candied orange + pickled cherries
Pickled Chef – Huge variety of farm fresh preserves and pickles, as well as the famous Picklesburgh Grilled Cheese with your choice of Dill Relish, Kimchi, or whole grain mustard and bacon
Pittsburgh Pickle Co. – Family owned and operated, producers of fine pickled products using zero artificial preservatives or food dyes – try PGH Style, Dill Mill, Fire & Smoke, or Better Bread & Butter to take home or enjoy your pickles onsite with the “Sucha Sausage” Kraut and Sausage sandwich – also available: refreshing Dill Lemonade and bottles of “Briney Mary” Bloody Mary mix
Pretzel Revolution – Try the pickled chicken stuffed pretzel or a dill and cheese soft pretzel, among a variety of other “stuffed” snacks and sandwiches made fresh onsite
Sienna Mercato – Three-story Downtown Italian eatery serving Dill Pickle Chips with carnival cornmeal crispies and buffalo ranch sauce, pickled strawberry shortcake with whipped cream, and a pickled pasta salad among other offerings – specialty cocktails will include pickled lemonade (on the rocks or frozen) and summer sangria with pickled fruits
Simon’s Food Concessions – Get your festival food fix with classics such as yummy fried pickle chips and pickle dogs, or try something really different – pickle funnel cake
Spirit – Wood-fired thin crust pizzas made to order in a mobile pizza oven with eclectic pickled toppings, plus a plethora of pickled cocktails – check out Spirit’s Summer Sangria w/ pickled watermelon, Gin & Juice w/ pickled carrot, Moscow Moose w/ pickled rhubarb, and Whiskey 57 with bourbon, soda, sweet brine, & gherkins
Superior Motors – thoughtfully prepared food drawing inspiration from Braddock, its people, its history and its perseverance, all in the eclectic style of Chef Kevin Sousa. Featuring flatbread with pickled mushrooms and ramps along with house made pagash with kielbasa and pickled sauerkraut – specialty cocktails include “The Gin” – Moletto tomato gin, basil, lemon, balsamic, and a pickled tomato garnish – as well as “The Vodka” – Boyd & Blair, honeydew, cantaloupe, and lime
Pickled Merchandise
Blissed Out Design – A local product design company specializing in Pittsburgh themed marble drink coasters, pick up a pickle themed set, or one of many other gifts such as wine stoppers, bottle openers, wall art, custom ornaments and more
Byler’s Relish House – FRIDAY & SATURDAY ONLY: Using open kettle processing and well-guarded old family recipes, Byler’s creates pickles, pickled vegetables, relish, jam, jelly, fruit butters, and salsa with vegetables and fruits fresh off the vine, tree, or bush
The Brinery at Two Acre Farm – creating a pickle for every taste: from crisp and bold Dill to mouth-watering Sweet Maple Bourbon to their famous fiery Spicy Chesapeake
Chocolate Moonshine Company – Lawrenceville’s premier artisan chocolate company serves up pickled twists on their gourmet fudge – try the Pittsburgh Pickle, Peanut Butter Pickle Swirl, or stick to a classic Belgian chocolate covered pickle on a stick
Cleveland Pickle – Garlic and Spicy Garlic Dills, Ginger and Sriracha Pickles, pickled red onions, and many more canned classics – stop by for a taste from our neighbors to the north
Conover Organic Farm – Pickles on a Stick, pickled cauliflower, dilly beans, garlic, and all the classics are available from this certified organic operation – every item is made from scratch in small batches using only produce grown on the farm
Dilly Bean – Lacto-fermented pickles with no additives or preservatives! 1/2 and full sour garlic and jalapeño pickles, garlic and jalapeno dillybeans, garlic and jalapeno sauerkraut, Giardiniera, pickled garlic, pickled jalapeños, plus white and red kimchis sold individually or packaged – no cans, no heating, just naturally fermented goodness
Ekernally Yours Gourmet Popcorn & Sweet Treats – Fresh-popped popcorn tossed in a variety of gourmet seasonings and flavors made from scratch, including Creamy Dill, Bread & Butter, Pickled Garlic, Pickled Jalapeno, and Hot Pickle
Epic Pickles – Check out the EPIC range of pickles and pickled toppings from this Cleveland producer: Kosher Dills, Garlic Dills, Chesapeakes, Spicy Dills, Hot Dills, Sweetness, Sweet & Spicy, Fennel Carrots, Spicy Carrots, and Sweet Ginger Carrots!
Grandpa Joe’s Candy Shop – Sole purveyors of Pickle Juice Soda, the instant internet viral sensation – pick up your own 12 ounces of pure pickled satisfaction as well as pickle themed socks, mints, candy, and ornaments
Green Kamikozees – Building off the wild success of their pickled hot green tomatoes, they now boasts over 16 pickled products – each jar is made with fresh garlic, dill, and hot peppers to create the perfect balance of flavor and heat
Just My Art – Quality handmade jewelry with unique and subtle designs created specifically for Picklesburgh – pickle necklaces, pickle earrings, jar o’ pickle pendants, fused glass designs, and hammered copper bracelets
LinaBags – Rock your pickle pride with cell phone bags and coin purses featuring fun and funky pickle themed prints.
McLaughlin Distillery – Small Batch Craft Distillery out of Sewickley, featuring three varieties of pickled moonshine
Olive Tap – Balsamic vinegars and Extra Virgin Olive Oils, both plain and flavored – take your home pickling game to the next level – grab a packet of pickling spices for use with the Olive Tap’s specialty vinegars
Pittsburgh Pottery – Handmade pottery glazed in a distinctive yellow – pickle jars and ornaments, plus Pittsburgh-themed mugs, bowls, plates and shot glasses for all the yinzers in your life
Randy’s Pickles – Handcrafted in small batches in Cleveland Ohio, they serve up pickles by the jar or by the pickle – taste their original grilled pickles: Randy’s “Sideburns”
Suckerpunch – This Illinois company packs just the right punch with their great tasting pickles, salsas and Bloody Mary mixes -they use only use all natural ingredients, are gluten-free, and always packed with bold taste
“Too” Hot Mamas – A variety of pepper products, naturally preserved and full of flavor – try the milder “Hots in Sauce” and “Pickled Peppers”, or the spicier “Hot Pepper Mustard”, plus uniquely delicious creations like “Zesty Zucchini Relish” and festival favorite “Hot Strawberry Butter”
Uncle Bunk’s – These award winning pickles and condiments are based on old Appalachian recipes; Sweet Pickles, Hot Mustard Relish, Hot Sweet Pickles, and Rustic Pepper Sauce are manufactured one small batch at a time – by the real Uncle Bunk
Wigle Whiskey/Threadbare Cider – check back soon for a very exciting announcement about a very special spirit!
Picklesburgh is brought to you by The
Pittsburgh
Picklesburgh Downtown Partnership (PDP), a non-profit organization that develops and implements innovative programs, economic development initiatives, and provides transportation advocacy to enhance the Downtown neighborhood. Events include some of Pittsburgh’s most successful and imaginative events such as Comcast Light Up Night, the Market Square Farmers Market, Night Markets, Yoga in the Square, and the Peoples Gas Holiday Market.
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
Previous article
Featured Recipe: Red Pepper Relish
Next article
Three-Time Champ Picklesburgh Nominated Again for ‘Best Specialty Food Festival in America’!
0 replies on “Pucker up, Pittsburgh: Picklesburgh is back and bigger than ever!”
More Stories
Get Involved
,
Picklesburgh Updates
Volunteer at Picklesburgh
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Picklesburgh™ is produced by
The Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership
Picklesburgh™ is a registered trademark of the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership
Back to top
Search for:
Search
Visit
Getting Here
Festival Maps
Accessibility
Festival Schedules
Vendors
Entertainment
Gherkin Games
Li’l Gherkins KidsPlay Activity Area
Taste of Picklesburgh
Get Involved
News
Photo Gallery
Contact Us