This is a list of fiction set in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Books
Afterimage (Richard Christie Mystery #3) by Kathleen George
All in Good Time by Carolyn Astfalk
An American Childhood by Annie Dillard
American Rust by Philipp Meyer
Another Kind of Monday by William Coles
The Autobiography of My Body by David Guy
Baby Teeth by Zoje Stage
The Bend of the World by Jacob Bacharach
Blood on the Forge by William Attaway
The Book of Jonas by Stephen Dau
The Bridge to Nowhere by Megan McDonald
Burning Valley by Phillip Bonosky
Captains and Kings by Taylor Caldwell
Carnegie's Maid by Marie Benedict
Christine by Stephen King
Dear Zoe by Philip Beard
Disquiet Heart by Randall Silvis
Duffy's Rocks by Edward Fenton
East Pittsburgh Downlow by Dave Newman
The Einstein Pursuit (Payne & Jones #8) by Chris Kuzneski
Elfhome (series) by Wen Spencer
Emily, Alone by Stewart O'Nan
Everyday People by Stewart O'Nan
Fallen (Richard Christie Mystery #2) by Kathleen George
Fleabrain Loves Franny by Joanne Rocklin
From a Buick 8 by Stephen King
The Great American Whatever by Tim Federle
The Great Smith House Hustle by Jane Louise Curry
Greenhorn on the Frontier by Ann Finlayson
Ghosts of the Golden Triangle by Mord McGhee
The Homewood Books by John Edgar Wideman
Imaginary Friend by Stephen Chbosky
Imposter (The Protectors #1) by Karen Fenech
Iron City by Lloyd L. Brown
Ironblood by Mord McGhee
The King's Orchard by Agnes Sligh Turnbull
The Last Chicken in America by Ellen Litman
 The Leap Year Boy by Marc Simon (2013)
Lethal Legacy by Gerald Myers
A Little Girl in Old Pittsburg by Amanda Minnie Douglas
Looking For The General by Warren Miller
Macaroni Boy by Katherine Ayres
The Man Who Liked Slow Tomatoes by K.C. Constantine
Me and Earl and the Dying Girl by Jesse Andrews
The Memory Keeper's Daughter by Kim Edwards
A Model World and Other Stories by Michael Chabon
Monongahela Dusk by John Hoerr
The Mysteries of Pittsburgh by Michael Chabon
Only Ever You by Rebecca Drake
Ophie's Ghosts by Justina Ireland
Ornamental Graces by Carolyn Astfalk
Our Lady of Immaculate Deception (Roxy Abruzzo Mystery #1) by Nancy Martin
Out of This Furnace by Thomas Bell
The Perks of Being a Wallflower by Stephen Chbosky
The Plantation (Payne & Jones #1) by Chris Kuzneski
Pickles to Pittsburgh by Judi Barrett
Pride and Prejudice and Pittsburgh by Rachael Lippincott
Remember the End by Agnes Sligh Turnbull (1938)
Riot by William Trautmann
Seducing Mr. Darcy by Gwyn Cready (2008)
Sent for You Yesterday by John Edgar Wideman
Settling Accounts: Drive to the East by Harry Turtledove
She Gets the Girl by Rachael Lippincott and Alyson Derrick
Snake Skin (Lucy Guardino FBI Thriller #1) by C.J. Lyons
Sword of God (Payne & Jones #3) by Chris Kuzneski
Taken (Richard Christie Mystery #1 by Kathleen George
The Tempering by Gloria Skurzynski
Tomorrow and Tomorrow by Tom Sweterlitsch
Three Golden Rivers by Olive Price
The Two Georges by Harry Turtledove and Richard Dreyfuss
Under the Same Blue Sky by Pamela Schoenewaldt
U.S.A. by John dos Passos
Ukiah Oregon (series) by Wen Spencer
The Valley of Decision by Marcia Davenport
Watch Your Mouth by Daniel Handler
Ways to Disappear by Idra Novey
Wonder Boys by Michael Chabon

Comic books
Firestorm the Nuclear Man
The Pitt
Star Brand

Film
Plays
The Pittsburgh Cycle - In 2005, August Wilson completed a ten-play cycle, nine of which are set in Pittsburgh, chronicling the African-American experience in the 20th century.  These are:
1900s - Gem of the Ocean (2003)
1910s - Joe Turner's Come and Gone (1984)
1920s - Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (1982) - set in Chicago
1930s - The Piano Lesson (1986) - Pulitzer Prize
1940s - Seven Guitars (1995)
1950s - Fences (1985) - Pulitzer Prize
1960s - Two Trains Running (1990)
1970s - Jitney (1982)
1980s - King Hedley II (2001)
1990s - Radio Golf (2005)

Television shows
Movies
Music
"America", written by Paul Simon and performed by Simon & Garfunkel, includes the line "Kathy", I said, / As we boarded a Greyhound in Pittsburgh, / Michigan seems like a dream to me now."
"Duquesne Whistle," which appears on the Bob Dylan album Tempest, was co-written by Dylan and Robert Hunter.  The song describes a train ride through Pittsburgh. NPR's Ann Powers speculates that this may be the same train described in Dylan's "Lo and Behold".
"A Good Man Is Hard to Find" by Bruce Springsteen describes "It's cloudy out in Pittsburgh / It's raining in Saigon / Snow's falling across the Michigan line."
"I'm Not Dead (I'm in Pittsburgh)", which appears on the Frank Black album Fast Man Raider Man, was co-written by Black and Pittsburgher Reid Paley.  It draws upon Pittsburgh's historical connection with the zombie genre.
"I finally found a place to call my own / a place where all good sinners can get stoned / I'll keep my holy vision, you keep your stupid pride / You said I couldn't make it on my own / But I'm not dead (I'm in Pittsburgh) / And now I can't get out of town / But I'm not dead (I'm in Pittsburgh) / They've got me all strung, come cut me down."
"Life During Wartime," which appears on Talking Heads' Fear of Music and Stop Making Sense, asks the listener in a post-apocalyptic landscape, "Heard about Houston? Heard about Detroit? Heard about Pittsburgh, PA?"  Long-time Talking Heads drummer Chris Frantz grew up in Pittsburgh.
"Lo and Behold," which appears on The Basement Tapes by Bob Dylan and the Band, tells the story of the narrator recounting a train ride with "I come into Pittsburgh / At six-thirty flat / I found myself a vacant seat / An' I put down my hat."
"Sweet Little Sixteen", by Chuck Berry, rhymes "Pittsburgh, P.A." with "Frisco Bay."
"Six Days on the Road", written by Earl Green and Carl Montgomery, describes a trucker who says "Well, I pulled out of Pittsburgh", in describing life on the road.
Pittsburgher Wiz Khalifa often mentions the city in his music.
Pittsburgher Mac Miller often mentions his hometown in his music

Video games
The Fallout 3 DLC "The Pitt" takes place in Pittsburgh
The Last of Us


== References ==