 Alumni Awards -     Engage with CMU - Carnegie Mellon University

Alumni Awards -     Engage with CMU - Carnegie Mellon University
Carnegie Mellon University
—
—
—
Search
Search
Search this site only
Engage with CMU
Engage with CMU
›
Alumni
›
Attend an Event
›
Campus Events
›               Alumni Awards
CMU Alumni Awards
Celebrating Our Brightest Stars
The CMU Alumni Association proudly honors these members of the CMU community, all of whom have made an impact on their industries, their communities, their alma mater and others' lives around the world.
The annual Alumni Awards event brings alumni, students, faculty, staff and friends together to celebrate those receiving the Founders Medal for Outstanding Service and Exceptional Achievement, Alumni Achievement Awards, Alumni Service Awards and Recent Alumni Awards.
Meet the 2024 Honorees
Become a Sponsor/Purchase a Tribute Ad
Attend the 2024 Alumni Awards
Friday, Nov. 1 at
6:30 p.m.
Simmons Auditorium,
Tepper Building
Register Now
Nominate a Tartan
View honorees since 1950
Award Categories
Alumni Awards Categories
Founders Medal for Outstanding Service and Exceptional Achievement
The Founders Medal is presented to an alumnus/a in recognition of both a longstanding record of service to and support for Carnegie Mellon University, and a record of professional or vocational achievements that are truly exceptional and have brought honor and prestige to themselves and to CMU. All alumni are eligible for this award, including those who have received prior alumni honors from the university or one of its colleges, schools or departments.
Alumni Achievement Award
Awarded to an alumnus/a for exceptional accomplishment and leadership in the nominee's professional or vocational field, which brings distinction to themselves and honor to the university. The contribution(s) need not be publicly renowned but should represent important creative effort or accomplishment with significant impact and value.
Alumni Service Award
Presented to an alumnus/a for volunteer service to the university or any of its alumni organizations. Several dimensions of service are considered, including breadth of service (service in multiple CMU volunteer roles), depth or longevity of service, and impact of volunteer service on the alumni organization and/or the university. Financial contributions are specifically excluded from consideration for this award, although volunteer service soliciting contributions on behalf of the university or service on CMU fundraising committees is applicable.
This award does not consider volunteer service to non-CMU organizations. Similarly, Carnegie Mellon employees or those alumni with business relationships to the university are not eligible on the basis of their employment duties or business services.
Recent Alumni Awards
Recent Alumni Achievement Award
: Awarded to an alumnus/a who received either a graduate or undergraduate degree from Carnegie Mellon University within the last 10 years for exceptional professional or vocational accomplishment.
Recent Alumni Service Award
: Awarded to an alumnus/a who received either a graduate or undergraduate degree from Carnegie Mellon University within the last 10 years for volunteer service to the university or any of its alumni organizations.
This award does not consider volunteer service to non-CMU organizations. Similarly, Carnegie Mellon employees or those alumni with business relationships to the university are not eligible on the basis of their employment duties or business services.
Nominations for 2025 Alumni Awards
honorees are due by Nov. 17, 2024.
CMU Alumni Awards
— Nominate a Deserving Tartan Today!
CMU's greatest assets are its people — the alumni, students, faculty, staff and friends who have forged CMU's legacy of innovation and excellence. Since 1950, the CMU Alumni Awards have recognized alumni in the CMU community for their service to the university and their impact on the world, and for their accomplishments and leadership in their professional or vocational fields.
Help us honor outstanding Tartans with these four, easy-to-complete steps:
Access the online
nomination form
.
Gather a professional summary
, such as a resume, a bio or even a LinkedIn profile, for your nominee.
Collect at least one letter of support.
Please note this letter cannot be drafted by the nominator. U
p to two letters
may be submitted
.
Submit the online nomination form and attach the professional summary and letter(s) of support.
Nomination FAQs
Where can I find information on the various awards and categories?
We encourage nominators to review the
Alumni Awards categories
to ensure you’re selecting the best fit for your nominee.
Founders Medal for Outstanding Service and Exceptional Achievements
Alumni Achievement Award
Alumni Service Award
Outstanding Recent Alumni Award
How many letters of support should I include?
One letter of support is required for all nominees, and up to two letters of support can be included. These letters are instrumental in the selection process for providing a complete account of the nominee's accomplishments, contributions and impact.
What if I missed the deadline for this year?
Nominations are accepted year-round and will be considered based on annual application deadlines.
What if my nominee is not selected this year?
Nominations remain active for two award selection cycles. If your candidate is not selected, you will have the opportunity to add supplemental and/or updated information to the individual’s nomination packet prior to the next deadline.
Can I nominate someone who has passed away?
Awards are not presented posthumously.
Do selected honorees need to attend the ceremony?
Selected honorees must be present at the CMU Alumni Awards ceremony in order to receive an award.
Who is eligible for an award?
Eligibility is limited by award type to alumni of Carnegie Mellon University. Current members of the CMU Alumni Association Board are ineligible to be nominated for and/or to receive an Alumni Association Alumni Award while they are active members.
Who selects the award honorees?
Alumni Award honorees are selected annually by members of the
CMU Alumni Association Board (AAB) Awards
Committee. Nominees are judged specifically on the impact of the nominee’s professional/vocational work and/or service to the CMU community.
Please
contact the Alumni Association
with questions or for more information.
Update Your Information
Give Now
University Advancement
5000 Forbes Ave
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Contact Us
Legal Info
www.cmu.edu
©
2024
Carnegie Mellon University
CMU on Facebook
CMU on Twitter
CMU on LinkedIn
CMU YouTube Channel
CMU on Instagram
Alumni
Attend an Event
Campus Events
Spring Carnival
Homecoming
Reunion
Alumni Awards
Network & Group Events
Online Events
Webinar Archives
Academic Programming
Get Involved
Networks
Regional Networks
International Networks
Identity Networks
Student Organization Networks
Globally Plaid
Volunteer
Mentorship
Build Your Career
Professional Development
CMUConnect
Career Coaching
Professional Networking
Resources for Recent Alumni
Alumni Resources
Online Alumni Community
Alumni Directory
Alumni Email
Alumni Insurance Programs
For Students
Tartan Tuesdays
Student Events
Professional Networking
Highland Ambassadors
Legacy Programs
Becoming Alumni
Alumni in the News
CMU Next
Class Notes
About Us
CMU Alumni Association Board
FAQ
Give
Giving Opportunities
University-Wide Initiatives
College and School Initiatives
College of Engineering
College of Fine Arts
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy
Mellon College of Science
School of Computer Science
Tepper School of Business
University Libraries
Annual Support
Ways to Make Your Gift
Online Giving
Credit Card (Online)
Check
Securities & Wire Transfers
Donor Advised Funds
Crowdfunding
Estate Gifts
Gifts that Provide You Income
Retirement Assets
Life Insurance
Real Estate
Personal Property
Matching Gifts
CMU Employee Payroll Deduction
Cryptocurrency
Gift Planning
Inspiring Donor Stories
Create Income with Giving
Give Through Assets
Design a Legacy
Impact Stories
Donor Recognition
Parents Leadership Circle
Order of the May
Andrew Carnegie Society
The ACS Board
ACS Legacy Scholarships
ACS Scholars Program
The Warner Circle
The Dunfermline Circle
The Highlands Circle
Heinz College Dean's Circle
W. L. Mellon Society
Thank a Donor
Student Giving
Contact Us
FAQ
Partner
Business Engagement
Foundation Relations
For Faculty & Staff
Highlighted Foundation Partnerships
Contact Us
About Us
Leadership
News
Working in University Advancement
University Advancement Policies
Donor Bill of Rights
Make Possible