Corporate Giving | The Frick Pittsburgh

Corporate Giving | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Tickets
Home
Support
Corporate Giving
Donate to the Frick
Corporate Giving
Extend your reach to new customers, receive public recognition, and build community goodwill through sponsorship at the Frick.  The options listed below provide promotional opportunities for your company to benefit from name placement in front of a premium audience.  Build your brand, receive valuable recognition, and support great events and educational programming for our community. Contact Manager of Institutional Support Jodi Golomb for details at 412-342-4089 or
JGolomb@TheFrickPittsburgh.org
.
Back to Support Overview
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Be a Corporate Sponsor
Exhibition Sponsorship
Sponsors play an important role in supporting the Frick’s exhibitions and bringing important artwork to Pittsburgh.  Exhibition Sponsors are recognized in many highly visible ways, enhancing their profile and demonstrating their commitment to the arts.
Exhibition Sponsors receive benefits such as the following:
Name and Logo Recognition on select signage and advertising
Name and Logo Recognition at the event and on website, social media, and event listings
Complimentary Invitations to the Exhibition Opening
Opportunity to host a private event – perfect for client entertaining or your next employee event (
note: catering and all other rentals are the responsibility of the sponsor
)
UPCOMING EXHIBITIONS
View Exhibitions
View Exhibition Events
Event Sponsorship
Throughout the year, the Frick hosts a variety of exciting events.  Event sponsors support popular programming and receive valuable recognition from key audiences.
Event Sponsors receive benefits such as the following:
Name and Logo Recognition at the event and on website, social media, and event listings
Social Media Co-Host Privileges
Complimentary Tickets to the event
Opportunity to set up a table at the event to distribute information about your company, promote your business, and give away branded materials
See upcoming events available for sponsorship.
View Events
Education Sponsorship
The Frick offers a variety of opportunities to support education programs for all ages. Supporting programs at the Frick is a great way to demonstrate your company’s commitment to education.
Sponsorships are available ranging from a single program, to a package of 6 or 12 programs.  Program Sponsors receive benefits such as the following:
Name and Logo Recognition at the event and on website, social media, and event listings
Name Recognition on all printed material for the program
Examples of programming available for sponsorship include both adult programming and families and children's programming. Adult programming includes exhibition tour, gallery talks, lectures, Frick Exhibition Readers' Series, Coffe & Culture programs, films, workshops, and more! Programs for families and children include such favorites as the following:
Family Fun Days
-- This series offers a variety of activities for families to enjoy, such as lawn games, collaborative projects and take-home artwork.  Previous programs have included the following themes:
Time Travel, during which kids add to a giant walk-through time machine and make their own prehistoric paint
Circus, with three rings of role play and the creation of costumes and critters;
Second Saturday Studios
-- This family-friendly arts programming encourages children and their families to make art together.  Families with children of all ages are invited to explore different and unusual materials or find fresh new ways to use familiar paper, paint and pencils.  This free, drop-in program is held in the new Education Center.
Examples of typical programming:
Create, collect and exchange one-of-a-kind artist trading cards.
Emboss, color and shape our fancy foils.
Use a plethora of paper on a paper exploration.
Go natural using trees, leaves, and rocks for special outdoor art.
EITC is another great way to support Education at the Frick.
Learn more about EITC
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!