Egypt | The Frick Pittsburgh

Egypt | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
The Fricks Take a Trip: Egypt
The Fricks Take a Trip: Egypt
January 21, 2021
The Fricks Take a Trip: Egypt
In the early twentieth century, Egypt was a vacation destination for many wealthy American and European families. It provided both adventure and ancient history while at the same time offered luxurious hotels and boat tours. The Fricks traveled to Egypt in the winter of 1912; they were led on their journey by archaeologist George Andrew Reisner, who Mr. Frick had met at an Egyptology talk in Boston. Reisner convinced Frick that he could take the family to sites unknown to most travelers. The party consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Frick; Reisner and his wife and daughter; Helen Clay Frick; Frances Dixon (who would later marry Childs Frick); and J. Horace Harding, an art collector and Mr. Frick’s financial advisor. They left on January 10th, 1912 aboard the
Adriatic
and arrived in Alexandria on the 28th.
Off the coast of Gibraltar. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Helen Clay Frick and Frances Dixon riding along the Nile. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Henry Clay Frick reading on the
Soudan II
during their trip up the Nile River. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Adelaide Frick at the Tomb of the Kings. She had injured her ankle in the Azores and could not make the journey on foot. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Left to right: Henry Clay Frick, Mrs. Harding, J. Horace Harding, Frances Dixon, Helen Clay Frick, and George Reisner. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Reisner took them to the Giza Necropolis to see the Great Pyramid and the Sphinx. They boarded the
Soudan II
and sailed up the Nile to other monuments of the ancient Egyptians. Helen was taken away with the views, saying “I have never seen such coloring in my life and can’t recall such a combination as the sunset and moon rise as we had this evening.” Their stops included Beni Hassan, Kom Ombo, Luxor, and the Valley of the Kings. Reisner showed them the tombs of the pharaohs and temples dedicated to the old gods of Egypt. Frick, impressed by all he had seen, donated 12,000 dollars to support Reisner’s excavations in Egypt.
Temple statues. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
The Great Sphinx and the Pyramid of Khufu. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
The Great Pyramids of Giza. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
The Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
The Frick party in Egypt. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
After Egypt, they visited Italy and France. A sail home on the
Titanic
was planned, but the Fricks delayed their return and gave the tickets to J.P. Morgan, who in turn also gave them away. The
Titanic
never reached New York and the Fricks returned home separately aboard the
Lusitania
and the
Amerika
.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
How the Fricks Traveled: The
Westmoreland
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
Preserving an Era: Celebrating Thirty Years of Clayton
Sue Morris, Clayton Docent
The Fricks Take a Trip: The Baths of Baden-Baden
Previous Story:
Partying with the Presidents: Part One
Next Story:
An Interview with Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!