The Art of Hood Ornaments | The Frick Pittsburgh

The Art of Hood Ornaments | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
The Art of Hood Ornaments: René Lalique
The Art of Hood Ornaments: René Lalique
June 10, 2021
By:
Kim Cady, Assistant Curator, Car and Carriage Museum
The Art of Hood Ornaments: René Lalique
While various hood ornaments were available to all car owners in the early 20th century, luxury brand owners wanted their cars to stand out among their peers. To accomplish this, wealthy owners adorned their vehicles with glass ornaments. With its inherent fragility, the use of glass increased the object’s prestige as a rare and decadent purchase. These stylish ornaments became a symbol of affluence and status, and owners had several options for suppliers. In Britain, there was Red-Ashay. French motorists purchased Sabino. In the United States, owners bought from Persons Majestic. Those owners who wanted the most opulent  ornaments, however, sought the designs of French artist René Lalique.
René Lalique (French, 1860–1945).
Coq Nain
(Bantam Rooster) c. 1928. From the Collection of The Henry Ford, Dearborn, Michigan.
Known for his Art Nouveau jewelry and glass perfume bottles, Lalique began creating Art Deco style hood ornaments in the 1920s. He introduced his first ornament in 1925, the
Cinq-Chevaux
(five horses) for Citroën’s 5CV—his only design made for a specific marque. Lalique chose uncolored glass for most of his works and incorporated satin and frosted finishes. On the rare occasion he chose colored glass, he selected shades of pinks, purples, and blues. In
Vitesse
, Lalique used opalescent glass, which gave the object a milky appearance. From the 1920s until his death in 1945, Lalique created 29 hood ornaments. Due to their high cost—approximately $600–900 today—Lalique’s creations graced only the most coveted luxury models such as Bentley, Hispano-Suiza, Bugatti, Isotta-Fraschini, and other similar marques. Lalique’s top-selling ornament and probably his most recognizable is
Victoire
—which epitomizes Art Deco styling.
René Lalique (French, 1860–1945).
Victoire
(Victory), c. 1928. From the Collection of The Henry Ford, Dearborn, Michigan.
Created to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the end of WWI, Lalique introduced
Victoire
on a Minerva automobile at the 1928 Paris Motor Salon. The ornament embodies energy, speed, and motion.
Victoire
denotes a female figure who seems to be facing into the wind, rendered in a way that expresses both the structural interest of Art Deco and aerodynamism—with her hair protruding behind like a sharp wing. Although only her head is visible, one can imagine her body bracing against the force of the wind. The piece stands on its own as a sculpture but doubles as an added  elegant touch to the automobile it adorns.
Like
Victoire
, many of Lalique’s pieces could stand on their own as works of art. He commissioned pedestals from the Breves Gallery in London for his client’s ornaments to be prominently displayed in their homes when not mounted to a  vehicle. Although we often think of cars as primarily functional objects, during the automobile’s golden age these ornaments, as well as the vehicles they adorned, were works of art created by some of the best artisans and industrial designers.
On Tuesday, June 15, at 7 p.m., local artist and jewelry designer Keith Belles will give us a
behind-the-scenes look
at the creation of a hood ornament. Join us for this exciting online artist talk in conjunction with
Cast in Chrome: The Art of Hood Ornaments
.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
Kim Cady, Assistant Curator, Car and Carriage Museum
A Closer Look at
Cast in Chrome: The Art of Hood Ornaments
An Interview with Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
Explosion in the Green Gallery!
Bouke de Vries: War and Pieces
Comes to the Frick
Previous Story:
What We've Been Reading: Juneteenth Edition
Next Story:
A Lead Foot in the Gilded Age
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!