Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked | The Frick Pittsburgh

Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked
Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked
April 22, 2021
Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked
"Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked" is the first full symphonic work about the enslavement of Africans and people of African descent in the New World composed by three-time EMMY ® Award-winning classical music composer, John Christopher Wineglass, based on the libretto written by acclaimed historian, Dr. Edda L. Fields-Black. It mourns the souls of the enslaved who died on Lowcountry South Carolina and Georgia rice plantations. The lamentation turns to celebration of the critical role enslaved Africans’ ingenuity, technology, and industry played in the economy of the US South.
Movement, "I. The Middle Passage: Uprooted" places the listener below decks of a slave ship making the atrocious journey from West Africa to America. The strings and woodwinds’ rapid scalar runs, continuously ascending into the upper register just to immediately fall again, paired with unstable harmonies in the brass, the foreboding thud of the bass drum, and the intermittent clash of the chimes produce a chaotic effect. Repetitive motifs drive the music forward, and one can feel the turbulence of the waves, wind, and seasickness. Just as the mass of sound becomes truly overwhelming, the brass seamlessly transitions into a fanfare, which is transposed upward and repeated while the strings’ runs are melodic but urgent. Achieved by a change in harmonic structure, the mood is suddenly triumphant, a tribute to the tremendous accomplishments of the enslaved, carrying the enormity of the conditions they survived but brimming over with pride at the work of their hands. Movement, "II. Tones of the Rice Fields" incorporates Fields-Black’s chilling libretto, which tells the lived experiences of the enslaved from primary historical sources. The orchestra and recorded sounds of the rice fields conjuring the setting make it all the more haunting. Movement, "III. Lament for Lost Souls" is a dwelling on one melancholy theme, producing an ethereal texture with the strings and winds’ meandering scales in the upper register. The instrumentation becomes thicker with unresolved longing, then grows in substance without ever losing its chilling effect.
The Colour of Music Festival Orchestra performed the three movements featured in Vanessa German’s
Reckoning:
Grief and Light
on February 13, 2019 at Pittsburgh’s Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
critic Jeremy Reynolds wrote, after attending the premiere: "The performance was a small taste of what promises to be a grand dramatic homage to the darkest chapter of American history."
John Wineglass and Dr. Edda Fields-Black at the orchestral debut of
Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked: Requiem for Rice
at Carnegie Museum Hall in 2019.
Listen to the Colour of Music Festival Orchestra's full, unmodified debut of the work at Carnegie Music Hall
here
.
Join Dr. Fields-Black and citizen artist Vanessa German for
an online conversation
about collective trauma and grief on Thursday, April 29 at 7:00 p.m.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
An Interview with Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
Kelsie Paul, Manager of School Learning
Laurel the Graves: The History of Memorial Day
Melanie Groves, Manager of Exhibitions and Registrar
The Story Behind
The Frick Reflects: Looking Back, Moving Forward
Previous Story:
A Closer Look at
Cast in Chrome: The Art of Hood Ornaments
Next Story:
A Closer Look at
Frida Kahlo—An Intimate Portrait
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!