Leadership | The Frick Pittsburgh

Leadership | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Tickets
membership
Home
Leadership
Leadership
Barry Adams, Director of Human Resources
Barry Adams joined the Frick in June of 2019 as Manager of Human Resources and was made Director in April 2021. He earned his B.S. in Human Resources from Point Park University and has over 25 years of HR experience. Most recently, he retired from the Allegheny County Port Authority where he was Chief Human Resources Officer. His work history includes Westinghouse Electric Corp., Equitable Resources (now EQT), and Schwan’s Home Service.
Dawn Reid Brean, Chief Curator & Director of Collections
Dawn joined the Frick as Associate Curator of Decorative Arts in 2015. In her current role, she oversees the care, exhibition, and interpretation of the Frick’s permanent collection and temporary exhibitions. She has played an instrumental role in continuing the Frick’s programming with contemporary artists, including an artist-in-residency with celebrated citizen-artist Vanessa German. A graduate of the College of William and Mary, Dawn earned her M.A. in Museum Studies from the Cooperstown Graduate Program.
Kristin Garbarino, Director of Marketing & Communications
As Director of Marketing and Communications since November 2022, Kristin brings fresh, strategic thinking to bear on all aspects of the museum’s marketing and communications, ensuring that the Frick’s website, social media accounts, print materials, advertisements, and campus wayfinding reflect its inclusive goals. Kristin comes to the Frick from Carnegie Mellon University, where she has served since 2018, most recently, as Associate Marketing Director at the Tepper School of Business. Prior to joining the Tepper School of Business, she served as the Director of Digital Marketing & Engagement at the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
Lisa Gehring, Director of Finance
Lisa Gehring joined the Frick staff in October 2019 as Director of Finance. In this role, she oversees the museum’s $5M operating budget and manages various aspects of the $70M endowment. Lisa brings over 15 years of not-for-profit accounting experience, most recently as the Senior Director of Finance at Manchester Bidwell Corporation. She is a licensed CPA, with a B.S. in Accounting from Grove City College.
Amanda Dunyak Gillen, Director of Learning & Visitor Experience
Amanda, who joined the Frick as Curatorial Associate in 2004, was named Director of Education in 2013. In her current role, she manages the development and implementation of a wide and diverse range of both on-site and off-site education programs, thematic Clayton tours, and more. She also led the technology initiative through which educational interactives were developed for the Frick’s Visitor Center, which opened in 2014. Amanda earned a Bachelor’s degree in History and a certificate in elementary education from Allegheny College, and a Master’s degree in Public History from Duquesne University.
Robert W. Henninger, Director of Operations
Rob joined the Frick as Director of Operations in October 2022 and manages the museum's maintenance, grounds, and housekeeping teams. Additionally, Rob guides all capital projects across our historic 10-acre, 10-building site. He came to the Frick from Kennywood Park, the National Historic Landmark traditional amusement park founded in 1898, where he has served for 32 years, most recently as Assistant General Manager and Director of Maintenance and Construction. With broad-ranging experience in mentoring effective teams, managing multi-million-dollar capital projects and improvements, and implementing safety initiatives, Rob pairs operations expertise with deep commitment to diplomatic, quality visitor service.
Beth Muth, Director of Enterprise & Visitor Services
Beginning in 2001, Beth served as the Frick’s Museum Store Manager and held that position for nearly a decade before accepting the position of Director of Visitor Services and Museums Stores at the Senator John Heinz History Center in 2011. In her six years at the History Center, she oversaw the daily operations of the café, admissions, and visitor services staff.  Beth returned to the Frick in late 2017 as Director of Visitor Services and Enterprise. She oversees The Café, Museum Store, admissions, and the rental event program. In her leadership role at the Frick she works with other departments and frontline staff to create and ensure an outstanding experience for all visitors. Beth earned a B.S. Degree in Retail Marketing & Management at the Art Institute of Pittsburgh.
Suzanne Wray, Director of Advancement & Engagement
Suzanne joined the Frick as the Director of Advancement & Engagement in March of 2024. With a distinguished career spanning various cultural and educational institutions, Suzanne returns to her Pittsburgh roots from eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey, where she made significant contributions to organizations such as the New Jersey State Aquarium, Free Library of Philadelphia, and the Philadelphia Orchestra. Most recently, she served as the Director of Development at the Princeton Symphony Orchestra, where she spearheaded successful fundraising campaigns and played a pivotal role in establishing the organization's Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) task force. Suzanne began her career in Pittsburgh, serving in development roles at the Pittsburgh Opera and the Bach Choir of Pittsburgh. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Music Performance and Music Education, as well as a Master of Arts Management degree, all from Carnegie Mellon University.
Our Mission
Annual Report & Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Press Releases
Our Staff
Contact List
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!