Pittsburgh Marathons, Runs, and Walks | Outdoor Events | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Marathons, Runs, and Walks | Outdoor Events | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Events & Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Marathons, Runs, Walks & Races
Run, walk or trot through the neighborhoods of Pittsburgh during some of the fastest growing racing events in the nation.
The topography of the city and the uniqueness of the neighborhoods give these events a distinctive feel. The rolling hills, glistening rivers and seemingly endless bridges create the perfect backdrop to keep you moving. Whether you're looking to have a fun mile, tackle your first marathon, cycle some of the steepest hills in the city, or have some friendly competition on the water, Pittsburgh has what you're looking for.
Pittsburgh Marathon
- May
There are several races under the
P3R
banner, including the annual
DICK'S Sporting Goods Pittsburgh Marathon
in May. In addition, race weekend features the UPMC Health Plan Half Marathon, FedEx Pittsburgh Marathon Relay, UPMC Health Plan/UPMC Sports Medicine Pittsburgh 5K Run, Chick-fil-A Pittsburgh Kids Marathon, Pittsburgh Pet Walk Fueled by Pro Plan and Sheetz Pittsburgh Toddler Trot. More than 30,000 participants cross the finish line during this weekend of fun running events.
Rush to Crush Cancer
- Spring
The Rush to Crush Cancer is a ride with three distance options to choose from to pedal and partner for cancer research. A survivor's walk will also happen race weekend.
America's Mile
- Summer
The unique America's Mile road race is short, fast and fun. Set against Pittsburgh's breathtaking North Shore, choose your challenge from diverse heats for all ages and abilities then meet at the finish line for the Mile 1.1 Post-Race Party.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by P3R (@p3rmovespgh)
Habitat Pittsburgh's Youth Triathlon
- Summer
Habitat for Humanity Pittsburgh lets kids of all ability levels ages 7-15 run, swim and bike in this fun and accessible triathlon. This event happens at the North Park Pool every summer, and all kids get a shirt to tie-dye and a medal for participating.
Hell Hath No Hurry
- Summer
Go outside of your comfort zone and challenge yourself with the thrilling race run and walk options at Hell Hath No Hurry. Held at the scenic Settlers Cabin Park, everything from a 10k to a 50-mile race and relay is here for runners to tackle.
Yinzer 4.12k
- Summer
Don your best Yinzer outfit, grab the Heinz ketchup and meet us at the North Shore for this fun run complete with food trucks, live music and tons to do on the Great Lawn.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by P3R (@p3rmovespgh)
Rachel Carson Trail Challenge
- Summer
Held on the longest day of the year, the Rachel Carson Trail Challenge's main race is 36-mile endurance hike that goes from sunrise to sunset in North Park. An 18-mile hike and 7-mile family challenge also occur that same day.
Steelers Run and Walk
- Labor Day Weekend
Every Steelers season kicks off with this fun event which weaves through the North Shore and finishes right on the field where the Steelers play at Acrisure Stadium. A Kids Fun Run for those 9 and under also happens the same weekend
EQT Ten Miler
- Fall
Pittsburgh's newest road race, the EQT Pittsburgh 10 Miler features a classic 10-mile distance highlighting some of Pittsburgh's unique neighborhoods including the West End, North Side, Lawrenceville and the Strip District. The course begins on West Carson Street near Highmark Stadium and crosses four bridges before finishing in front of EQT headquarters on Liberty Avenue, Downtown.
Pittsburgh Great Race
- Fall
The other major race happening each year in Pittsburgh is the
Richard S. Caliguiri City of Pittsburgh Great Race
at the end of September. Take part in the 5K Run & Fitness Walk or the 10K Run.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by The Great Race (@greatracepgh)
GAP Relay
- Fall
Spanning two days and the entirety of the 150-mile Great Allegheny Passage, the GAP Relay starts in Maryland and finishes right here in Pittsburgh. A one day, 40-mile adventure option is also available.
Dirty Dozen
- Late Fall
Take on 13 of Pittsburgh's steepest hills in this bike challenge. Riders must bike up the hills in one motion without stopping or crashing to earn the prestige of being a Dirty Dozen finisher. The race includes the infamous Canton Avenue hill, which boasts a 37 percent grade and is speculated to be the steepest paved city street in the world.
Other Fun Races & Events
Other fun races around the city include the
Run Around the Square
in Pittsburgh's Regent Square neighborhood and the
YMCA Thanksgiving Day Turkey Trot
. Or, climb some serious stairs that lead to amazing city views. Pittsburgh has more than 716 sets of steps in 66 of its 90 neighborhoods. The annual
StepTrek
on the South Side of Pittsburgh takes you up a series of public stairways.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by P3R (@p3rmovespgh)
Authentic Experiences
Trails
Learn More
Hotels & Resorts
Learn More
Plan Your Trip
Learn More
Biking in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Related Blog Posts
Insider’s Guide: The Pittsburgh Marathon
Get the inside tips and tricks about how to make the most of Marathon Weekend in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map