Pittsburgh Makers | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Makers | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Things to Do
Shopping
Pittsburgh Makers
Pittsburgh Makers
The term "Made in Pittsburgh" is becoming more mainstream thanks to Pittsburgh’s amazing maker community.  Local artists and makers are redefining the city’s craft manufacturing scene.
From handmade jewelry to pottery and even steel-era inspired gifts, you’ll find great makers and products in Pittsburgh. No matter what you’re looking to buy, it’s very likely someone in Pittsburgh is making it!
Designing and redesigning products made from its own post-production materials,
Knotzland Bowties
creates low-waste, high-fashion bowties and other sustainable treasures. Founded by Nisha Blackwell, Knotzland has rescued more than 3,400 pounds of fabric and offset 11,000 pounds of carbon emissions while creating vibrant, wearable art. Also supporting the community is
Pip & Lola’s Everything Homemade
, which donates one bar of soap to domestic violence shelters and charities for every two items purchased. Pip & Lola’s Everything Homemade specializes in handcrafted vegan and vegetarian scented body bars, facial soaps and solid shampoo bars.
Knotzland Bowtie Co.
Pittsburgh features various brick-and-mortars throughout the city carrying maker goods. With a location in Downtown Pittsburgh and Mount Washington,
love, Pittsburgh
sells a curated collection of gifts that represent more than 100 different artists and makers living in the Pittsburgh region. Items include candles, cards, t-shirts, notebooks, ceramics, themed gift sets and more. Also located Downtown is PG&H, a workshop and retail space that unites Pittsburgh’s maker community. The flagship store features more than 50 makers and offers private shopping experiences. Small Mall, owned by Casey Droege Cultural Productions, is an artist run and woman-owned business with a goal of strengthening the arts economy in Pittsburgh. The shop rotates products seasonally and includes works from artists, designers and makers.
Throughout the year, there are plenty of events and pop-up markets to connect with the maker community.
I Made It! Market
is a nomadic indie crafts marketplace that partners with local nonprofits, arts organizations and community groups to make a positive impact. Celebrating the cutting edge of craft and connecting creators and consumers is
Handmade Arcade
. This nonprofit organization hosts an annual convention featuring more than 200 makers, a Show and Sell spring event, a virtual marketplace and various other opportunities throughout the year promoting the maker community in the region. During the holidays, the
Peoples Gas Holiday Market
® is a must-visit, featuring local and international makers, musicians and
holiday festivities
.
Related Blog Posts
Indoor Maker Activities in Pittsburgh
Get hands-on with these indoor activities to exercise your mind!
Details
15 Unique Places To Shop For Gifts In and Around Pittsburgh
Looking for some unique gift ideas? Check out these Pittsburgh based gems.
Details
“
Wear” to Buy Face Masks in Pittsburgh
Show your Pittsburgh Pride and support local businesses with custom face coverings.
Details
2023 Pittsburgh Holiday Gift & Shopping Guide | Shop Local
Shop local and gift Pittsburgh this holiday season!
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map