Pittsburgh Christmas Events 2024 | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Christmas Events 2024 | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
📍 Downtown Pittsburgh
The UPMC Rink at PPG Place
Home
Events & Festivals
Holiday Events
Pittsburgh Holiday Events
From outdoor shopping and toasty refreshments to indoor exhibits and bites for the whole family, there are plenty of ways to enjoy the holidays in Pittsburgh.
Experience the magic of the Holidays in Pittsburgh! Enjoy seasonal events and celebrations – all while following health and safety guidelines. Visit cool places, support small and local businesses and make plans to glide across the glistening ice rink.
Read on for more on how you can get in the Holiday spirit this season!
Downtown Events
Greater Pittsburgh Events
Holiday Performances
Downtown Holiday Happenings
Light Up Night
Nov. 23, 2024
This
annual celebration
is the official kickoff of Pittsburgh's Holiday celebration. Experience a full night of vibrant activities and events, including concerts from national and local artists, extraordinary firework displays, family activities, the seasonal opening of Pittsburgh's winter attractions, the spectacular illumination of the Golden Triangle and more!
The Peoples Gas Holiday Market™
Nov. 22-Dec. 24, 2024 (closed Thanksgiving)
Downtown Pittsburgh is festive and fun at the annual
Peoples Gas Holiday Market™
where you can browse outdoor wooden chalets brimming with unique gifts and
holiday experiences
filled with international flair and local charm. Enjoy live music as you stroll through an illuminated
Market Square
, and don't forget to stop by for a visit with Santa himself!
The UPMC Rink at PPG Place
Nov. 15, 2024-Jan. 5, 2025
Create smiles and memories when you skate at
The UPMC Rink at PPG Place
. Since 2001, this rink has been a staple attraction in
Downtown Pittsburgh
during the holidays.
Meet the Man in Red
2024 Dates TBD
What’s a holiday celebration without meeting the man of the hour, Santa Claus? Bring the kids and their wish lists to visit with Santa in-person at his festive house in Heinz Hall Courtyard, thanks to BNY Mellon! Once again, families have the wonderful option for their young ones to visit with either a Black or White Santa. Just let Santa’s helpers know who you prefer!
Handmade Arcade Holiday Market
Dec. 6 (Happy Hour) and Dec. 7 (Main Event), 2024
Shop one-of-a-kind handmade products from 250+ talented makers and artists at the largest holiday market in the region at the
David L. Lawrence Convention Center
at
Handmade Arcade
! This free market goes from 11 a.m.-6 p.m. on Dec. 7, but Friday Night happy hour and Saturday early bird tickets are available if you want to shop early and avoid the crowds.
The Pittsburgh Crèche
Light Up Night (Nov. 23, 2024) through Epiphany
Venture from Market Square across town to the U.S. Steel Tower and visit
The Pittsburgh Crèche
, the world's only approved replica of the Vatican's Nativity Scene.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Mike Boyko Photography (@mikeboyko.photography)
Holiday KidsPlay Selfie Garden
Throughout the Season
2024 Details TBA.
Enjoy a family pitstop at the Heinz Hall Courtyard as it transforms into a child’s television dreamland for the holidays. Explore colorful backdrops and life-sized standees of popular characters from Fred Rogers Productions’ beloved children’s shows and other PBS favorites, including Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood, Daniel Tiger’s Neighborhood, Peg + Cat and Odd Squad.
Highmark First Night Pittsburgh
Dec. 31, 2024-Jan. 1, 2025
Pittsburgh's signature New Year's celebration,
Highmark First Night Pittsburgh
, takes place in the Cultural District with a variety of family-friendly activities and, of course, fireworks!
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Downtown Pittsburgh (@downtownpitt)
Holiday Events & Activities Around Town
Holiday Magic! Winter Flower Show and Light Garden
Nov. 16, 2024-Jan. 5, 2025
Phipps' glowing gardens are back and bigger, brighter and more breathtaking than ever! Their 2024 show,
Holiday Magic!
, features a Winter Flower Show of holiday trees, 21 varieties of poinsettias, orchids, and amaryllis, while the Winter Light Garden wows guests including tens of thousands of lights, glowing tunnels and illuminated panes of glass. With a new theme of Enchantment, stroll through a forest of fantasy and be on the lookout for mystical creatures.
Welcome This Winter! at the Carnegie Museum of Art
Carnegie Trees: Wintry Days & Frosty Nights
2024 Dates TBD
Since 1961, the annual installation and decoration of the Carnegie Trees has kicked off the holiday season at the museum. The Hall of Architecture will be transformed into a
winter wonderland
featuring towering Fraser fir trees lit to perfection and trimmed with glistening snow, gingerbread, baubles and more.
Neapolitan Presepio
2024 Dates TBD
See an elaborate panorama of live in 18th-century Naples and view the nativity scene recreated with miniature figures. The museum has carried on this centuries-old tradition since 1957.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Carnegie Museum of Art (@carnegiemuseumofart)
GLOWLAND
Nov. 22 - Dec. 14, 2024
Pittsburgh's
Oakland
neighborhood will be aglow for a month long winter festival with art installations, live music and lights throughout.
GLOWLAND
will be anchored by Impulse, an interactive and family friendly art installation of playable seesaws that create sound and light in ever-changing compositions.
Kennywood Holiday Lights
Kennywood's Holiday Lights
Nov. 15, 2024 through Jan. 1, 2025 (closed on Christmas)
Make your season sparkle at
Kennywood’s Holiday Lights
. Bring your family and celebrate the return of this Pittsburgh classic. Take a stroll among more than two million
twinkling lights
and marvel at the tallest Christmas tree in the state. Savor the flavors of new festive foods and holiday drinks. Plus, there are rides for the kids and special entertainment for all. The holidays shine brighter than ever at the 11th anniversary of Kennywood’s Holiday Lights. Come make it part of your tradition select nights starting Nov. 15!
Dazzling Nights
Nov. 29 - Dec. 31, 2024
Pittsburgh Botanic Gardens promises to immerse you in the wonder of the holidays for their
Dazzling Nights
event, perfect for families, friends and date nights. Have fun stepping on interactive lights, explore a forest of light and fog and journey through a 70' tunnel of light on before taking a photo to remember at their towering tree.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh Botanic Garden (@pghbotanicgarden)
Wild Illuminations: A Holiday Lantern Experience
Nov. 15, 2024-Jan. 12, 2025
The
Pittsburgh Zoo
transforms into a winter wonderland with a frosty reimagining of their treasured lantern festival with
Wild Illuminations: A Holiday Lantern Experience
. Expect colossal Christmas-themed lanterns, a secret forest, mystical dream tunnel and more in this walk-through and drive-through experience.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium (@pghzoo)
Holiday Happenings at the National Aviary
Nov. 30-Dec. 30, 2024 (Select Dates)
Spend your holidays at the
National Aviary
! Enjoy family-fun activities during Season’s Greetings Saturdays, festively-decorated Holiday Brunches in The Garden Room and late nights with the birds during Holiday Lights and Late Nights! Don’t forget to stop in the Gift Shop or visit the online store for that perfect present.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by National Aviary (@national_aviary)
Nationality Rooms Holiday Open House
Nov. 17, 2024, noon-4 p.m.
The Nationality and Heritage Rooms in the Cathedral of Learning will be decorated for the
holiday season
again in 2024! Guests can explore the traditions of each culture, make traditional crafts, watch cultural demonstrations and even see St. Nicholas! This event is free, but gifts and foods will be available for purchase.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Nationality Rooms (@nationalityrooms)
The Lawrenceville Cookie Tour
Dec. 14 & 15, 2024, noon-5 p.m.
Holiday shopping has never been so fun (and so filling). This free event, now in its 27th year, allows shoppers to sample fresh, homemade cookies as they find incredible gifts for everyone on their list. Make sure to hop on the event trolley as it makes stops throughout Lawrenceville and Penn Avenue.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Lawrenceville Corporation (@lvpgh)
Holiday Performances - Ballet, Symphonies, Live Music & More
Poinsettias and Pointe Shoes
Nov. 25-26, 2024
This performance by the
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
is the unofficial kickoff to the holiday season as they bring the magic of
The Nutcracker
to the historic glasshouse at
Phipps Conservatory
. Tickets include admission to their Winter Flower Show and Light Garden.
The Wickhams: Christmas at Pemberley
Nov. 30-Dec. 22, 2024
City Theatre Mainstage celebrates the beloved characters of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice in a companion piece to last season’s Miss Bennet: Christmas at Pemberley. As the events of Miss Bennett unfold upstairs, the house staff below have their own holiday scandals as they gather for
Christmas at Pemberley
.
Who's Holiday!
Nov.27-Dec. 22, 2024 (select dates)
Leave the kids at home for this one. This
R-rated show
by Greer Cabaret Theater joins Cindy-Lou Who, now a grown-up, for a night of cocktails, cursing and fun.
Handel's Messiah
Dec. 7, 2024
Experience the majesty of
Handel’s Messiah
with conductor Manfred Honeck, the Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh and your
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
.
A Christmas Story: The Play
Dec. 4-Dec. 22, 2024 (select dates)
Experience the play version of Ralphie Parker's misadventures through all the trials and tribulations of a family holiday in
A Christmas Story
. Just don't try licking any lamp posts before or after the show.
The Nutcracker with the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
Dec. 6-27, 2024 (select dates)
Snow settles across the city as a wonderful adventure begins in
PBT’s The Nutcracker
. Join Marie, her Nutcracker prince and the Sugar Plum Fairy on a journey into the Land of Enchantment. Five fanciful scenes, more than 150 unique costumes and Tchaikovsky’s enduring score make The Nutcracker a can’t-miss holiday tradition.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre (@pittsburghballettheatre)
A Lyrical Christmas Carol
Dec. 18-22, 2024
Pittsburgh Musical Theater's
rendition of Scrooge's journey from humbug to changed person, adapted by Ken & Jane Gargaro and performed at the Gargaro Theater.
Highmark Holiday Pops
Dec. 13-22, 2024 (select dates)
Share Pittsburgh’s favorite holiday musical tradition with family, and thrill to the spectacle of the season with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's
Highmark Holiday Pops
. It’s a sparkling celebration of carols, classics, sing-alongs and more! And yes, Virginia, there will be a Santa Claus!
Sensory-Friendly Concert: Holiday Pops
Dec. 14, 2024
Family-friendly, welcoming performance of
Holiday Pops
especially designed for those with sensory sensitivities and those on the autism spectrum.
Sensory-Friendly The Nutcracker
Dec. 15, 2024
Sensory-friendly performance of
The Nutcracker
by the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater with a relaxed atmosphere and accommodations such as lower sound levels and raised house lighting to create a safe and welcoming theater experience.
Holiday Brass Spectacular
Dec. 17, 2024
Join the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for this annual
one-night-only tradition
! Usher in the holiday season with music from Baroque favorites to new arrangements of beloved holiday classics.
Pittsburgh Jazz Orchestra Holiday Concert
Dec. 13, 2024
The Pittsburgh Jazz Orchestra performs new treatments of holiday classics and collaborates with some of the greatest global jazz artists for this
one-of-a-kind holiday production
.
Stay tuned for a variety of other holiday events and activities throughout the season!
Authentic Experiences
Family Fun
Won't you be our neighbor?
Learn More
Shopping
Calling all shopaholics!
Learn More
Music & Performing Arts
The performing arts are always in the spotlight in Pittsburgh!
Learn More
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Learn More
Related Blog Posts
Pittsburgh Holiday Pop-Up Bars
It seems like pop-up bars just keep popping up! Let us help you find the most perfectly peculiar Pittsburgh pop-up…
Details
Pittsburgh Celebrates Light Up Night 2024
Join us as we light up the city and officially kick-off the Pittsburgh holiday season!
Details
Peoples Gas Holiday Market™
Get into the holiday spirit at the 12th Annual Peoples Gas Holiday Market™!
Details
Pittsburgh Holiday Lights
Experience the sparkle this 2024 holiday season in Pittsburgh!
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map