Pittsburgh Museums | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Museums | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Walk Through Millions of Years
📍Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Home
Things to Do
Arts & Culture
Museums
Museums
From history, art, science, sports and more, Pittsburgh museums offer much to be explored.
If you love art, culture, and learning, Pittsburgh is a great place to explore. With our wide range of museums and galleries, there are endless must-do items to add to your agenda.
View All Pittsburgh Museums
Whether you're looking for rainy day activities or seeking
family-friendly things to do
, Pittsburgh's museums offer diverse perspectives, engaging exhibits, and interactive galleries. Our museums feature a variety of indoor fun during the
colder months
. There are no shortage of galleries or exhibits for
sports lovers
,
foodies
, history experts, science enthusiasts, and
art connoisseurs
.
Discover a Museum for Every Interest
Find Your Inner Artist Exploring the Local Arts Scene
Explore
Pittsburgh's arts and culture scene
with a trip to some of our most popular attractions. Browse through a diverse array of paintings, sculptures, and more at locations such as
Carnegie Museum of Art
,
The Frick Pittsburgh
, and
The Westmoreland Museum of American Art
. Marvel at iconic and colorful works at
Andy Warhol Museum
, or stroll through immersive installations at
Mattress Factory
.
Uncover Multiple Layers of History
Plan for a history-filled itinerary in Pittsburgh, where fascinating treasures and artifacts await. Make your way to
Heinz History Center
, which features a wide range of Smithsonian objects, as well as an exhibits about the Underground Railroad, Mister Rogers, and Pittsburgh's contributions to American history. Dinosaur aficionados and geology buffs will enjoy spotting one-of-a-kind specimens and gems at
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
. Don't miss making a stop at
Fort Pitt Museum
, discovering Western Pennsylvania's impact on a historic events such as the American Revolution and the development of Pittsburgh.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Channel Your Curiosity on Your Own Scientific Adventure
Enrich your learning about the most awe-inspiring milestones in the scientific world with hands-on experiences and multifaceted exhibits. Visit
Moonshot Museum
for out-of-this-world memories, watching the assembly of spacecraft and participating in simulated lunar missions. Discover a wide range of eureka-like moments at
Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center
, wandering through a planetarium, a submarine, and a fitness area where you can transform into a human yo-yo. Younger audiences will relish exciting activities at
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh
, where creativity is inspired by spots such as a waterplay area and a "Makeshop."
Revisit Iconic Pittsburgh Sports Moments
Pittsburgh sports fans will be enthralled by
Steelers Hall of Honor Museum
, which commemorates the history of the team with rare memorabilia and celebrates 49 inductees. For a more eclectic spin on your museum outing, visit
Bicycle Heaven Museum
, embarking on an adventure through the world's biggest bike museum and store.
Museums in Pittsburgh
Please enable JavaScript to show the Partner Listings listings.
Insider's Guides to Pittsburgh Museums
Insider’s Guide to the Steelers Hall of Honor Museum
Relive 90 years of Steelers history with interactive exhibits for all fans of the black and gold
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: The Andy Warhol Museum
Safely experience Pop Art icon Andy Warhol's artwork at The Andy Warhol Museum.
Learn More
Guide to Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater
Take a tour of Fallingwater while you're in Pittsburgh!
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Moonshot Museum
Plan Your Visit to this One-Of-a-Kind, Interactive Space Museum
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Senator John Heinz History Center
Explore Pittsburgh’s Heinz History Center, the #1 History Museum in America
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Carnegie Science Center
Explore out-of-this-world fun at Pittsburgh’s Carnegie Science Center, Pittsburgh's most-visited museum!
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History
Explore unique art, an incredible dinosaur exhibit and so much more at Pittsburgh’s iconic Carnegie Museums…
Learn More
What’s Cool at Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is one of the top must-see destinations in Pittsburgh.
Learn More
Five Can’t‑Miss Things at Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Discover the first fossil of the world’s most famous dinosaur, Egyptian artifacts, lapidary art and fossilized…
Learn More
Explore All That Glitters at Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh
People know Carnegie Museum of Natural History for its dinosaurs (especially Dippy and the world’s first…
Learn More
Escape to the Age of Dinosaurs at Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Safely explore dinosaur exhibits and more at Pittsburgh's must-see Carnegie Museum of Natural History.
Learn More
Arts & Culture
Pittsburgh is a city of eclectic cultures, communities and neighborhoods that help create the vibrant arts and cultural scene that we locals take much pride in.
Learn More
Visual Arts
No matter your artistic style, Pittsburgh has a museum for you.
Learn More
Pictured
|
Mattress Factory
Explore More
Family Fun
Won't you be our neighbor?
Details
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Details
Top 25 Things to Do in Pittsburgh
Wondering what there is to see in Pittsburgh? We’ve put together an extensive list of must-visit attractions worth adding to…
Details
Tours & Sightseeing
​However you like to roll, Pittsburgh is sure to have the sightseeing option for you.
Details
Pittsburgh Sports
In Pittsburgh, we bleed black and gold.
Details
Restaurants & Culinary
Global cuisine spanning 90 unique neighborhoods
Details
Related Content
Pittsburgh in Three Hours
Whether you're a visitor to Pittsburgh with some free time to spare, or you're a local…
Learn More
Pittsburgh Celebrates Black History
For more than 200 years, Southwestern Pennsylvania has been impacted by the achievements and influence of…
Learn More
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map