5 Spectacular Stops along the Great Allegheny Passage | Visit Pittsburgh

5 Spectacular Stops along the Great Allegheny Passage | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
5 Spectacular Stops along the Great Allegheny Passage
The Great Allegheny Passage is a 150-mile trail offering spectacular bicycling adventures that starts right in Downtown Pittsburgh
Travelers have officially taken notice of an Only in Pittsburgh bucket-list attraction, as the Great Allegheny Passage has been named a winner in the 2023 USA TODAY 10 Best Readers’ Choice travel award contest for
Best Recreational Trail
.
The 150-mile
Great Allegheny Passage
(commonly called the GAP) connects Pittsburgh and Cumberland, Maryland, where it meets the C&O Canal Towpath. Together, the two paths create a nearly level journey between Pittsburgh and Washington, D.C.
Full of breathtaking views, the complete trip is a bucket list experience for bike enthusiasts of all ages. Plan your own trip and stop by any number of bed and breakfasts, inns or campsites along the way. Or, connect with the team at
Golden Triangle Bike
, ready to help with everything from bike rentals to shuttle services and more.
Not ready for the long haul? No problem! There are a number of ways to get out and explore portions of the Great Allegheny Passage. The
official website
is an excellent resource to utilize when creating your ideal GAP experience.
No matter what your plans are, be sure to carve out a few extra days at the beginning or the end to explore Pittsburgh. From eclectic arts and cultural attractions, to always entertaining sporting events, to award-winning breweries and so much more, it’s definitely a must!
Check out these five gems on your next day trip or overnight:
1. Point State Park
The Great Allegheny Passage begins and ends at Pittsburgh’s majestic
Point State Park
, right at the confluence of the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Ohio Rivers. Look for a bronze medallion next to the famous fountain at the park’s triangular tip. Check out the
Fort Pitt Museum
and its exhibits which document the city’s birth as a French trading outpost and transformation into steel capital.
2. Hot Metal Bridge
Once carrying ladle transfer cars containing molten steel across the mighty Monongahela River, this double-span 1,174-foot bridge is a Pittsburgh icon, and today it carries hikers and bicyclists on the GAP via a series of wide ramps. From
Hot Metal Bridge
's center, you’ll take in expansive views of the Downtown Pittsburgh skyline and peek at coal barges and pleasure boats below. From its far side, explore Pittsburgh’s artsy and historic South Side.
3. Whitaker and Port Perry Flyovers
The
Whitaker
and
Port Perry
Flyovers are specially-designed bridges that carry travelers on the GAP through a prominent industrial area in Pittsburgh’s steel valley. From one, you get great views of Kennywood Park’s Steel Curtain roller coaster. From the other, you can see where British General Edward Braddock was mortally wounded by French and Indian opponents on route to Fort Duquesne. Both bridges are prime locations for trainspotting. Look for Amtrak’s Capitol Limited making its runs among Chicago, Pittsburgh, Cumberland, and Washington, D.C.
4. Salisbury Viaduct
You’re rewarded with 360-degree views of the surrounding forests and farmland reward travelers when crossing the 1,908-foot
Salisbury Viaduct
, which soars 101 feet above the Casselman River just west of Meyersdale, Pa. The longest trestle on the Great Allegheny Passage, it’s a magnificent place to watch the sunrise or sunset, and breathtaking during a foggy spring morning.
5. Big Savage Tunnel
Making bicycle travel possible through the rugged ridges of the Allegheny Mountains, the 3,291-foot
Big Savage Tunnel
offers a cool alternative from the
summer
sun and a respite from gusty winds in the spring and fall. It’s fitted with custom arched portal doors and a modern lighting system. The eastern portal reveals an expansive overlook with benches and a picnic area where you can gaze into four states. The western portal faces the Eastern Continental Divide, from which it’s all downhill to Pittsburgh.
The Great Ride - a documentary
WQED explores one of America’s most treasured biking destinations. Consisting of two connecting trails, the C&O Canal Towpath (Washington, D.C. to Cumberland, Maryland) and the Great Allegheny Passage (Cumberland, MD to Pittsburgh, PA), cyclists from all over the world are enjoying 335 uninterrupted miles of breathtaking scenery and fascinating history.
Related Blogs
Autumn Hikes, Bikes, Runs & Fun!
Learn More
25 Famous Pittsburgh Bridges
Learn More
Pittsburgh in Two Hours
Learn More
Outdoor Winter Recreation in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Author
Asaka N.
Related Content:
Save
Golden Triangle Bike
600 1st Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Golden Triangle Bike
Golden Triangle Bike
600 1st Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
(412) 600-0675
Details
Website
Save
Great Allegheny Passage
25045 Three Rivers Heritage Trail
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Great Allegheny Passage
Great Allegheny Passage
25045 Three Rivers Heritage Trail
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map