Pet-friendly Travel | Visit Pittsburgh

Pet-friendly Travel | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Plan Your Trip
Pet-friendly Travel
Pet-friendly Travel
Canines (and felines) rejoice in Pittsburgh!
Whether you adopted a new furry friend or strengthened your bond with your best bud, this last year has given many of us extra time to enjoy our pets. And, there’s no need to let a much-needed getaway break that bond. With a variety of pet-friendly accommodations, incredible activities and delicious dining options, Pittsburgh is the perfect city for you and your four-legged friend.
Pack your bags and your pup for an awesome adventure in Pittsburgh.
Where to Stay
Did you know that Pittsburgh has a wide selection of
pet-friendly hotels
? That’s right! With more than 40 hotels in the region ready to welcome you and your best furry friends, there are plenty of options to choose from. Whether you’re looking for a luxury stay Downtown or a relaxing spot in one of Pittsburgh’s 90 unique neighborhoods, we’ve got you comfortably covered!
Where to Eat and Drink
Bring your shaggy sidekick along to experience the sites and bites of the city. Located in the South Side,
Double Wide Grill
features a large outdoor seating section that is a hub for dogs and dog lovers. The restaurant offers
vegan and vegetarian
options and even a doggie menu. In the heart of Lawrenceville,
Walter’s Southern Kitchen
serves up mouth-watering BBQ in a picnic-themed outdoor area.
Redfin Blues
is another delicious, pet-friendly restaurant with riverfront views and easy access to riverfront bike trails.
Be sure to add a visit to one of the many
Pittsburgh craft breweries
offering outdoor, pet-friendly patios and seating areas. Located on the North Side,
Allegheny City Brewing
is a neighborhood brewery with an outdoor seating area and food trucks daily. Stop by
Grist House Craft Brewery
in Millvale for a welcoming, family run brewery with flavorful and unique beers. A little further outside the city is
Inner Groove Brewing
, featuring rotating taps, vinyl spinning tunes and a great back patio for the dogs.
Follow
our Pittsburgh pup ambassador Ace on Instagram
@AcePGHAdvenutres
for more pup-friendly fun and tips for your next visit to Pittsburgh!
Embark On An Incredible Outdoor Adventure!
Featuring more than 180 miles of trails, Pittsburgh is the perfect destination for outdoor walks and adventures with your four-legged friend. From riverfront trails to parks and off-leash areas, your pup is…
More Info
EmBARK on an incredible outdoor adventure!
Featuring more than 180 miles of trails, Pittsburgh is the perfect destination for outdoor walks and adventures with your four-legged friend. From riverfront trails to parks and off-leash areas, your pup is…
More Info
Find Your Furry Friend
Pittsburgh also is a great place to find your new best furry friend. The
Humane Animal Rescue Pittsburgh
is one of Pennsylvania’s largest nonprofit organizations dedicated to the welfare of animals, pet owners and the community. Plan a visit to adopt or spread the love with a donation.
Looking for a Garfield for your Odie?
The Black Cat Market
, Pittsburgh’s first cat cafe, is another community organization with lovable and adoptable cats – and a purr-fect spot for some pet-therapy!
Related Blog Posts
Dog-Friendly Hotels in Pittsburgh
Some Pittsburgh hotels treat your four legged friend like royalty.
Details
Dog Friendly Restaurants and Bars in Pittsburgh
There are so many places for you to enjoy some good food and delicious drinks with your best friend by…
Details
A Dog’s Day in Pittsburgh
Enjoy these PAW-some Travel Tips from Ace, the Pittsburgh Adventure Dog for when you plan your next visit!
Details
Rediscover Pittsburgh on a Roadtrip With Your Dog
We invite you and your favorite furry pup friends to experience Pittsburgh!
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map