The Backyard Brawl Returns | Breaking Down the Big Game #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh

The Backyard Brawl Returns | Breaking Down the Big Game #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
5 Reasons Why the 2024 Backyard Brawl Will Continue to Live Up to the Hype
One of College Football's Best Rivalries Returns to Acrisure Stadium on Sept. 14
Only 75 miles separates the University of Pittsburgh and West Virginia University, and since 1895 they have annually met on the gridiron for regional bragging rights. In 2011, the sad breakup of Big East football put this series on a hiatus. Two years ago, the Backyard Brawl made a triumphant return when the Panthers and Mountaineers opened the 2022 College Football season in front of a sellout crowd on the North Shore.
Credit
|
Pitt Athletics
On Saturday, Sept 14, 2024 these proud football programs will return to
Acrisure Stadium
to brawl for the lead in the new edition of this electric series. We break down why this game will continue to live up to the hype of this historic rivalry.
1) Looking for an Edge in the New Series
With the new series tied at one win for each team, this is a critical game for the programs to take a lead in this current 4 game series. On Sept. 1, 2022, the victory lights were turned on in Oakland after an exciting
38-31 Thursday Night
win. Two touchdowns from Rodney Hammond and a stellar 56-yard interception returned for a touchdown by MJ Devonshire fueled the Panthers as they threw the first punch in the new series.
On Sept. 16, 2023 the Mountaineers hit back with a controlling
17-6 victory in Morgantown
. WVU’s revenge win was carried by a great defensive performance with three interceptions as well as 102 yards and a touchdown from CJ Donaldson.
This season’s matchup during Week 3 of the 2024 season will be the third game of a contracted four game series. After 2025, this series will take another hiatus until the 2029 season. In a heated rivalry like the Backyard Brawl, every result will be magnified. And the fact that this series won’t be back in Pittsburgh for a while after this game will raise the stakes even more.
University of Pittsburgh
Credit
|
Tom Altany
2) Something to Prove
The hometown Pittsburgh Panthers are coming off a disappointing 3-9 (2-6 ACC) season. This was the worst win total of Pat Narduzzi’s time as Pitt Head Coach. The highlight of the Panthers’ season was a
38-21 win over the then-undefeated Louisville Cardinals
in one of the best upsets of the 2023 College Football season. This was only the second losing season of Narduzzi’s tenure that is entering year number 10. Despite this, Pitt was picked to finish 13 out of 17 teams in this year’s ACC preseason poll. Luckily for the Panthers, this program is very used to overcoming doubters (don’t forget their 2021 season). And, they will be very eager to prove them wrong once again and redeem last season’s letdown, starting with defending their home against their greatest rivals.
The West Virginia Mountaineers finished 2023 with a 9-4 (6-3 Big 12) record. Despite being picked to finish last in 2023 Big XII Conference preseason poll, they blew their peers’ expectations out of the water and had the most successful season of Head Coach Neal Brown’s tenure. In addition to their victory in last year’s Backyard Brawl, the Mountaineers also took a signature win in the Duke’s Mayo Bowl when they
trounced the North Carolina Tar Heels 30-10 in Charlotte.
WVU enters this season with very high expectations. They were picked to finish seventh in this season’s 16-team Big XII preseason poll, received votes in the AP National Preseason poll, and return a high upside QB in Garrett Green. All these reasons will give the traveling Mountaineer fans hope for a win in enemy territory, and to prove that they can earn national recognition this season.
Credit
|
Tom Altany
3) Hungry Newcomers and Experienced Veterans
The Pitt Offense is now led by a new Offensive Coordinator named Kade Bell, who previously designed one of the highest scoring offenses last year at the “FCS” level for Western Carolina. With a new OC also comes a new QB as Eli Holstein will be the likely starter. Holstein is a redshirt freshman who spent last season at Alabama without making an appearance. He is regarded as having a high ceiling as he was one of the high school football recruits in the nation in 2023, and will be hungry to prove himself at this level.
The offense will also star returning Tight End Gavin Bartholemew and Running Back Desmond Reid, while also returning four O-line starters from last season and clutch Kicker Ben Sauls. They will have a tall task scoring on the West Virginia defense, which returns a great Safety duo in Aubrey Burks and Anthony Wilson, along with Defensive End Sean Martin. They will be bolstered by four key transfers, most notably former Duquesne Corner Ayden Garnes.
Mountaineer fans are very excited about this year’s QB/RB duo of Garrett Green and CJ Donaldson. Greene threw for 2,406 yards and 16 touchdowns last season, while adding 772 yards and 13 rushing touchdowns. Those great numbers came despite him missing most of last year’s Backyard Brawl with an injury. CJ Donaldson was a key piece of the offense in the last two matchups vs. Pitt and has 19 touchdowns over his past two seasons overall. West Virginia’s Offensive Line has recently been a big strength of their team, and this year’s unit will be led by preseason all Big XII selection Wyatt Milum.
They will match up against a tough Pitt defense that will have a mix of old and new faces. Safety Donovan McMillion should be the star of this defense, he led the team in tackles last season with 105. Safety Javon McIntyre and Linebacker Brandon George are two other important returning veterans. Defensive lineman Nick James and Nate Matlack, along with Linebacker transfer Keye Thompson are among some important transfers hoping to make a name for themselves in this game.
Both programs are filled with players who have had the experience of playing in this high stakes rivalry, but they have also brought in new players that will be anxious to make their mark on this game.
University of Pittsburgh
Credit
|
Tom Altany
4) Highlight Plays
Since the series resumed in 2022, both games have been defined by clutch plays. One interesting detail about the past couple matchups is the best play for both teams’ wins have been on the defensive side of the ball. In 2021, Pitt’s MJ Devonshire, from Aliquippa, cemented himself in Pitt greatness when he picked off a deflected pass and took it to the endzone for the go-ahead touchdown. The play sent the stadium and the Panther Pitt Student Section into a frenzy.
We’ll make an argument that the play of the game in last year’s Backyard Brawl was from Aubrey Burks. The now-senior safety picked off a Phil Jurkovec pass in the second quarter and brought it back to the 7-yard line to set up an important touchdown. The past two matchups have been a great indicator that this game will bring the best out of the players, especially on defense.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by ESPN College Football (@espncfb)
5) Great Atmosphere, With No Love Lost
It’s hard to believe that the most attended football game ever in Acrisure Stadium was not a Steelers game, but the 2022 return of the Bayard Brawl with 70,622 fans.
As awesome as these players and coaches are, what really drives this rivalry is the fans. West Virginia fans have proved that they aren’t intimidated of the away trip up to Pittsburgh. But Pitt fans proved two years ago that they can answer the call to help their players defend home turf. In a rivalry that transcends into other sports like Men’s Basketball, the resumption of this series has been a huge boost to these programs and their fans. Everything great about this series, and about college football really, trickles down to the energy from the fans, during the games. And the passion of both of these fanbases can push their players to make this the best Backyard Brawl yet!
Credit
|
Pitt Athletics
Author's Note:
This series is everything great about college football. I attended the Backyard Brawl return game two years ago in Panther Pitt, and it was one of the best nights of my life. College football is unique because of the unmatched passion that these matchups bring. Thank you to everyone for reading!
Related Blogs
Pittsburgh: A Great City for College Students
Learn More
Pittsburgh: A Sports Destination
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Senator John Heinz History Center
Learn More
Oakland: Neighborhood Guide
Learn More
Trading in my
​
“
Y’all” for
​
“
Yinz”
Learn More
Burgh Bound from Buffalo | Student Perspectives
Learn More
A Weekend Around Pittsburgh by Bus | Student Perspectives
Learn More
Feasting Through Pittsburgh: My Journey & Foodie Guide | Student Perspectives
Learn More
From Stage AE to the Symphony: A Musical Guide to Pittsburgh I Student Perspectives
Learn More
The Best of Asian Cuisine Around Pittsburgh: My Food for Thought | Student Perspectives
Learn More
Move-In Day | Pittsburgh College Guide
Learn More
Author
Jeremy M.
Pitt Grad & VisitPITTSBURGH Contributor
Former VisitPGH intern. Proud yinzer. Pitt grad. Currently pursuing a career in sports business.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map