Pittsburgh: An Urban Adventure Destinatio | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh: An Urban Adventure Destinatio | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh: An Urban Adventure Destination
Wrapped in rivers, intertwined with trails and packed with parks, Pittsburgh is full of outdoor adventure. Whether you prefer to bike, walk, rollerblade or simply gather with friends for a picnic, green getaways and outdoor adventures are aplenty in Pittsburgh. It’s no wonder WalletHub continuously ranks the city among the best for an active lifestyle.
Wrapped in rivers, intertwined with trails and packed with parks, Pittsburgh is full of outdoor adventure. Whether you prefer to bike, walk, rollerblade or simply gather with friends for a picnic, green getaways and outdoor adventures are aplenty in Pittsburgh. It’s no wonder WalletHub continuously ranks the city among the
best for an active lifestyle
.
One of the best ways to explore Pittsburgh is to take to the streets to experience its natural beauty, unique terrain and diverse offerings at every turn. Pittsburgh is incredibly walkable with more than 180 miles of trails throughout the nine
Allegheny County Parks
, 700+ public stairways and numerous
walkable bridges
.
Plus, Pittsburgh has become known as a city that supports and encourages bicycling, with bike-accessible hotels and public transportation, an
easy-to-use bikeshare system
and a devoted community of cyclists. In fact, People for Bikes, one of the nation’s leading organizations dedicated to making bicycling safer, more convenient and appealing for everyone, recognizes Pittsburgh among the best places to bike in the world.
Pittsburgh’s unique topographical blend of steep, winding hills and flat river areas makes it one of the best cities for cycling enthusiasts. There are miles and miles of riverfront trails in the Pittsburgh area and dedicated bike lanes throughout the city’s neighborhoods.
Some of Pittsburgh’s most famous guided tours allow visitors to explore the city’s 90 unique neighborhoods by foot or bike, like
Bike the Burgh
and
‘Burgh Bits & Bites Food Tour
. There are plenty of self-guided options as well, including
Downtown walking tours
,
gallery crawls
and even a
Green Building Walking Tour
.
Perhaps the most famous trail is the
Great Allegheny Passage
– locally known as the GAP trail – a 150-mile, non-motorized path that connects Pittsburgh to the C&O Canal Towpath in Cumberland, Maryland, creating a 355-mile continuous experience to Washington, D.C. For those not ready to tackle the entire path, consider renting a bicycle from
Golden Triangle Bike
and enjoying a leisurely ride along the Monongahela River.
Looking to stay more local? Explore the
Three Rivers Heritage Trail System
, which links together city neighborhoods and highlights Pittsburgh’s natural beauty and history while following the flowing lines of the city’s rivers and parks. Several
suburban trails
also will excite hiking and walking enthusiasts. The area’s extensive network of trails extends outward to the suburbs, offering a multitude of cycling opportunities in locations such as
Hartwood Acres
and
Seven Springs Resort
. For those looking for a more pastoral experience, the
Youghiogheny River Trail
,
Hidden Valley Resort
and
Laurel Highlands Hiking Trail
, among others, offer miles of wilderness hiking trails.
The City of Pittsburgh is also home to
176 parks
, ranging from regional parks to small neighborhood parklets, making it a great destination for picnics, family gatherings and other outdoor recreation.
Point State Park
is located at the confluence of Pittsburgh’s three rivers and is home to the iconic Pittsburgh State Park Fountain.
Schenley Park
is full of beautiful trails for hiking, biking or running. There also is open green space for playing games or relaxing, a swimming pool in the summer months and an ice rink in the winter.
Frick Park
covers more than 600 acres of trails, wetlands and dog-friendly areas. Tucked into the neighborhood that shares its name,
Highland Park
hosts volleyball courts, a swimming pool and plenty of trails that make this park a hit with the family.
Throughout the parks and trails intertwined across the city, visitors will find an array of beautiful scenery, including more than 3,500 native Eastern redbud trees planted over the past five years by
The Pittsburgh Redbud Project
.
With more than 30 miles of river shoreline, it is only fitting that Pittsburgh is a premier location for recreational boating, fishing and a variety of other water sports. During the warmer months,
Venture Outdoors
offers kayak and paddleboard rentals to enjoy throughout North Park Lake, Sharpsburg’s James Sharp Landing and Downtown, regardless of experience level.
SurfSUP Adventures
also provides paddleboard rentals in addition to popular Eco-Tours across Moraine State Park and the Islands of Oakmont.
For those who would rather let the professionals do the work, the
Gateway Clipper Fleet
and
Rivers of Steel’s Explorer riverboat
are great ways to experience the breathtaking views without breaking a sweat. Also, just a short drive outside of Pittsburgh in the
Laurel Highlands
, Class III and IV rapids await thrill-seeking rafters along the Youghiogheny River at
Ohiopyle State Park
.
Rolling forested hills, rich farmland and sparkling rivers make Western Pennsylvania a visual treat, and the region has
some of the best golf
in the United States. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania boasts more than 500 public golf courses. Visitors can tee off at more than 50 public golf courses in the Pittsburgh area, including
Oakmont Country Club
, named the fifth-greatest course in America by
GolfDigest
. Oakmont, previous host to nine U.S. Opens, will next host the competition in 2025.
Author
Alex Soller
Communications & Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map