Insider's Guide to The Andy Warhol Museum | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Insider's Guide to The Andy Warhol Museum | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
< Back
Insider's Guide: The Andy Warhol Museum
Safely experience Pop Art icon Andy Warhol's artwork at The Andy Warhol Museum.
Pittsburgh is home to many talented artists, actors and filmmakers, and was the birthplace of Pop Art icon Andy Warhol. And, you can celebrate the life and work of Warhol in his hometown at
The Andy Warhol Museum
.
The Warhol, one of the four
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
, is located on
Pittsburgh’s North Shore
and holds the largest collection of Warhol’s artworks and archival materials. The Andy Warhol Museum is also one of the most comprehensive single-artist museums in the world and the largest in North America.
POP In For A Visit
The Andy Warhol Museum welcomes you for a bright and creative museum experience. The museum strongly encourages all guests to
reserve a timed ticket online
in advance of their visit. Admission includes all permanent and special exhibitions, daily film screenings and daily gallery talks.
Group and student rates
also are available along with
Good Fridays
– a weekly deal offering half-price admission from 5-10 p.m. on Friday nights. Can’t get enough Warhol? Check out the
museum’s membership options
and enjoy access to member-only events, store and café discounts, and free admission to all four Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh!
Warhol at Home
Bringing the museum to you and your family,
Warhol at Home
features engaging stories, videos and activities for the whole family to enjoy. The Warhol’s
Making It video series
was recognized internationally by the London-based charity
Kids in Museums
. There also are plenty of interesting stories and videos to enjoy ranging from Warhol and David Bowie’s relationship to a visit with Muhammad Ali.
The Warhol offers
extensive lessons for educators
around the world. Ranging from K-12 school programs to distance learning and teacher workshops, the museum’s professional artist educators work closely with teachers to develop engaging and relevant content.
LGBTQ+ Culture
Andy Warhol played a major role as a gay icon, and The Andy Warhol Museum fully embraces the
LGBTQ+ culture
. The museum celebrates free expression and strives to be an inclusive institution with diverse perspectives and performances. Check out the museum’s
calendar of upcoming events
for LGBTQ+ programs.
Insider’s Tips
Snap a Pic on the Red Couch
When you walk into The Andy Warhol Museum, it’s hard not to gravitate toward the red couch in the lobby. The red couch was a staple at The Factory, Andy Warhol’s New York City apartment in the 1960s. Although the museum’s couch isn’t the original, many celebrities have recreated Andy’s iconic couch pose including Jay-Z and Big Bird.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by The Andy Warhol Museum (@thewarholmuseum)
Brillo Box Parking Booth
Whether you’re driving, biking or walking to the museum, be sure to check out the themed parking lot booth. The museum’s parking lot booth was created to resemble Warhol’s famous Brillo Box and is very helpful when trying to spot a place to park.
Plan Your Visit
When should I visit the Andy Warhol Museum?
Yes! The museum is currently open Wednesday through Monday, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., with extended hours until 10 p.m. each Friday with discounted admission after 5 p.m. as part of
Good Fridays
. The Warhol Café is open during museum hours, as is The Warhol Store, which is accessible without museum admission.
What you can see at the Warhol Museum?
The museum is always bustling. Through daily programming like
Fifteen Minutes Eternal
, a thirty-minute film that gives an overview of Warhol’s life, and
Gallery Talks
which offer thematic museum tours led by museum staff members or Donald Warhola, one of Warhol’s ten nieces and nephews, The Warhol has become a welcoming place for all who want to experience his art. It has even become a trendy rental space for cocktail parties, events and weddings!
What exhibits are open?
Permanent Collection
Explore seven floors devoted to the life and work of Andy Warhol. When you arrive, take the elevator to the top floor and work your way down to move chronologically through Warhol’s life.
KAWS + Warhol
Through Jan. 20, 2025
In celebration of its 30th anniversary, The Warhol presents KAWS + Warhol, the first exhibition to examine the dark themes present in the work of both artists.
KAWS + Warhol
How does the Warhol Museum serve the community?
Over the past two and a half decades, The Warhol has provided artist educators who visit local schools and introduce art making techniques, partnered with programs like the Homeless Children’s Education Fund and Highmark Caring Place to offer therapeutic art workshops for children and families affected by trauma, and supports the Gay Straight Alliances (GSAs) that fosters a healthy community among the LGBTQ+ youth throughout Pittsburgh.
What is unique about the Warhol Museum?
The museum, which celebrated its Silver Anniversary on May 13, 2019, has been a symbol of creativity throughout the city for 30+ years. His collections and archived materials rest here, making it the largest single-artist museum in North America. But what makes this museum so special is how it positively impacts the Pittsburgh community.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by The Andy Warhol Museum (@thewarholmuseum)
For avid Warhol fans, view a live feed of his gravesite, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in a project the museum has named Figment. Click
here
to watch his tombstone live, completed with rosaries and Campbell soup cans.
Where can I park at the Warhol Museum?
Parking in the museum lot is $8 and is cash only during normal operating hours. The entrance is located on East General Robinson Street. Look out for the Brillo-painted attendant booth. You can also park in the public East General Robinson Street garage, North of the museum.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Jess (@jessicaebrauer)
Related Blogs
Reel Q, Pittsburgh’s LGBTQ+ Film Festival
Learn More
A Sensory-Friendly Guide to Pittsburgh
Learn More
3 for Free | Top Pittsburgh Museums Offer Free Admission in August
Learn More
Creativity for a Cause in Regent Square
Learn More
Things to Do Before Concerts on the North Shore
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens
Learn More
Museums
From history, art, science, sports and more, Pittsburgh museums offer much to be explored.
Learn More
Visual Arts
No matter your artistic style, Pittsburgh has a museum for you.
Learn More
Pictured
|
Mattress Factory
Author
Kylie M.
Blog Author
Kylie is a Pittsburgh native and Duquesne University alum who loves to travel and explore new things. Follow her on Twitter @KylieMcCracken_ for all things PGH, sports, food & drink.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map