Things to Do in Pittsburgh in the Winter - Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Things to Do in Pittsburgh in the Winter - Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Plan Your Trip
Weather
Winter in Pittsburgh
Winter in Pittsburgh
There are plenty of ways to enjoy Pittsburgh in the winter, no matter your interests, taste buds or even the weather.
Winter in Pittsburgh is chilly, snowy and loads of fun. With winter festivals, slopes, ice skating and plenty of indoor entertainment, it’s a great time of year for visitors.
What to Do
Embrace the season, enjoy the winter weather and make plans to visit The UPMC Rink at PPG Place in the heart of
Downtown Pittsburgh
– just steps away from
Market Square
. Hit the slopes at Boyce Park or take a day trip to
Seven Springs Mountain Resort
. Or, grab a sled and zip your way through the many hills in
Pittsburgh city and Allegheny County parks
.
Warm up at one of Pittsburgh’s eclectic,
cozy coffee shops
like De Fer Coffee & Tea or Grim Wizard. Or, grab a delicious
steaming bowl of soup
at Smiling Banana Leaf, Patti’s Pasticceria or EatUnique Café.
Not a fan of cold weather? No worries! There are plenty of
indoor attractions and activities
to explore. Spend the day enjoying the
visual arts
at renowned museums like the
Mattress Factory
– a must-see contemporary art museum.
Sports fan? Visit the
Clemente Museum
and learn about humanitarian and baseball legend, Roberto Clemente. Or, take in an exciting
Pittsburgh Penguins
game at
PPG Paints Arena
.
In town for the holidays? Pittsburgh dazzles with
holiday lights and events
!
One Stop Trips in Pittsburgh
Even if you are short on time during your stay in Pittsburgh, here's how to maximize your Pittsburgh experience in one trip:
No matter how much time you have in town, you’ll get into the spirit by visiting the
People’s Gas Holiday Market
in Pittsburgh’s Market Square. This German-style pop-up brings the festivity with local shops, live music and even special appearances by Santa himself!
Stop by the
Strip District
to sample international cuisine from Sunseri's pepperoni rolls to S&D Polish Deli's pierogis as you walk and shop local vendors selling all things Pittsburgh.
Short on time but want the scoop on the ‘Burgh while you’re in town? The
Heinz History Center
is the perfect one-stop-shop for all things Pittsburgh. Explore the history, inventions,
sports teams
and icons that have make this city what it is today.
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
How to Pack
There’s no way around it, winter in Pittsburgh is bound to be chilly and often snowy as well. The good news is that with a chill in the air comes all the fun and festivities of the winter season. When packing, there are a few things you should be sure to grab.
Dress in Layers!
The city, especially Downtown, naturally warms up during the day. Dress in layers so that you can easily remove articles of clothing as you explore during the day, then bundle up again in the evening.
One of the highlights of the winter season in Pittsburgh is the
UPMC Rink at PPG Place
! If you are a serious skater, be sure to
pack your ice skates
. Don’t worry, you can always rent a pair if that’s more your style.
Even if you plan to keep you walking to a minimum, it’s always a good idea to
have the right shoes
. Boots that can handle getting wet or snowy will make exploring much easier, and more fun!
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
What to Eat & Drink
Staying warm and cozy in the cold weather has a lot to do with choosing the right things to
eat
and
drink
!
Winter Beers
A deep dive into the ales, stouts, porters and more seasonal favorites at Pittsburgh breweries that pair well with the season.
Learn More
Pierogies
Let’s face it, pierogies are delicious any time of year and Pittsburghers love them dearly. Something about the holidays makes this traditional dish (and the unique takes on it!) extra special.
Learn More
New Year's Eve in the 'Burgh
First Night is the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust’s annual event on December 31st to celebrate the new year. Several events, shows, exhibitions and more take place throughout the Downtown area. And, of course, fireworks!
Celebrating Love in Pittsburgh
Whether you’re celebrating your sweetheart, your bestie or your furry friend,
Valentine’s Day
is a great time to show you care. Try something new, stay in and do something you love, or get everyone together for a big celebration!
Winter Views
Make a trek across one of Pittsburgh’s pedestrian and bike-friendly
bridges
to see the frozen rivers as the temperatures drop. This peaceful view will give you the warm and fuzzies, even if it is chilly outside.
Take the Inclines
up to spectacular overlooks on Mount Washington.
Sail the
Gateway Clipper
and take a sightseeing tour across Pittsburgh's iconic three rivers.
After you explore the
Nationality Rooms
in the Cathedral of Learning in Oakland, head up to the 32nd floor for a view that spans across the neighborhood and beyond.
With the right outfit and a festive attitude, there are so many ways to enjoy Pittsburgh in the winter. So bundle up and make the most of your trip to the 'Burgh in the snowy season. We'll see you there!
Related Blog Posts
Peoples Gas Holiday Market™
Get into the holiday spirit at the 12th Annual Peoples Gas Holiday Market™!
Details
Holiday Photos in Pittsburgh
Kick off the holiday season with a family photo in your favorite city!
Details
Pittsburgh Holiday Lights
Experience the sparkle this 2024 holiday season in Pittsburgh!
Details
Oakland for the Holidays
Celebrate the holidays!
Details
2023 Pittsburgh Holiday Gift & Shopping Guide | Shop Local
Shop local and gift Pittsburgh this holiday season!
Details
Pittsburgh Holiday Pop-Up Bars
It seems like pop-up bars just keep popping up! Let us help you find the most perfectly peculiar Pittsburgh pop-up…
Details
Pittsburgh Celebrates Light Up Night 2024
Join us as we light up the city and officially kick-off the Pittsburgh holiday season!
Details
Authentic Experiences
Pittsburgh Holiday Events
From outdoor shopping and toasty refreshments to indoor exhibits and bites for the whole family, there are plenty of ways to enjoy the holidays in Pittsburgh.
Details
Events This Week in Pittsburgh
What's happening in Pittsburgh this week, you ask?
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map