Pittsburgh’s Favorite Ice Cream Shops | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh’s Favorite Ice Cream Shops | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
< Back
Pittsburgh’s Favorite Ice Cream Shops
Whether you want a new ice cream experience with innovative flavors, or simply want a quick treat from a mom-and-pop shop, you will not be disappointed with Pittsburgh's selection of America’s favorite frozen treat!
We all know that food staples in Pittsburgh abound, and we proudly weave it into the cultural fabric of our city. The Heinz ketchup bottle and pickle are imprinted on our minds, we see pierogis in our sleep, and most yinzers will recommend out of towners try a Primanti Bros. sandwich at least once while they’re here. But I’m going to let you in on a secret you may not know about: We also take our ice cream very seriously. Whether you want a new ice cream experience with innovative flavors like you’ll find at Millie’s or Dave and Andy’s, or simply want a quick treat from a mom-and-pop shop like Page’s Dairy Mart, you will not be disappointed with our selection of America’s favorite frozen treat!
1.
Millie’s Ice Cream
Locations:
multiple locations all around Pittsburgh
Based out of Homestead, Millie’s Ice Cream is a Pittsburgh brand started by Chef Chad Townsend and his wife, Lauren, in the name of his grandmother. The creaminess of Millie’s Ice Cream lies on this side of gelato, but not quite as fatty. There are several locations around the city, but a favorite is their flagship store in Shadyside, complete with picnic tables for
summer
seating. Flavors rotate regularly and include limited time selections like Brownie Batter and White Chocolate Hazelnut Rhubarb.
2.
Klavon’s Ice Cream Parlor
Location: 2801 Penn Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Stepping into Klavon’s in the Strip District will make you feel like you’ve stepped back to the early 20th century. Beautiful, vintage woodwork and small bistro tables and booths fill this classic ice cream parlor. A large chalkboard above the counter displays an amazing sundae selection. Carve out enough time to eat in the parlor. You won’t want to miss your sundae presented in a large glass bowl.
3.
Dave and Andy’s Homemade Ice Cream
Location: 207 Atwood St, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Dave and Andy’s has held the heart of the residents of Oakland since 1983. Open until 10pm, this ice cream shop is the perfect place to end (or for the college students who frequent it, start) your night. The flavors are rich, the waffle cones are crispy and sweet, and the chocolate ice cream actually tastes like chocolate.
4.
Page’s Dairy Mart
Location: 4112 E Carson St, Pittsburgh, PA 15210
Ask any yinzer if they know about Page’s Dairy Mart, and they’re bound to send you dahn to da southside for a stop at this Pittsburgh institution. Page’s Dairy Mart was established in 1951 and has been serving families, teenagers, and anyone else on hot summer nights ever since. Specializing in soft serve ice cream, you can choose from a variety of flavors. Other treats include Artic Swirls blended with the toppings of your choice, sundaes made over cinnamon buns, and apple dumplings served with ice cream. Order a plain vanilla soft serve in a cake cone, and cover in rainbow sprinkles, for a nostalgic treat.
5.
Sam’s in the Strip
Location:
2105 Penn Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
It’s a tiny place, located right next to Mon Aimee Chocolate on Penn Avenue. If you’re not looking for it, you may miss it. But this ice cream counter serves up an excellent assortment of gelatos and hard dip ice cream, as well as ice cream cookie sandwiches made on the spot with your selection of cookies and whatever ice cream flavor you want. If you’re spending a day shopping in the Strip District, be sure to stop there for a mid afternoon snack.
*Bonus Ice Cream Boss:
Leona’s
Look at me, LOOK AT ME! You have not had an ice cream sandwich, until you have had a Leona’s Ice Cream Sandwich. Not only are they the greatest tasting ice cream sandwiches you’ve ever had, but they are all lactose free! Lactose intolerant, rejoice! Soft, homemade cookies sandwich a chuck of creamy, homemade ice cream. Unlike the rest of this list, Leona’s doesn’t have a storefront for their happy sandwiches. Instead, they sell them at several locations around the city and surrounding area. Check their website for
selling locations
!
Related Blogs
Only in Pittsburgh Summer Festivals & Events
Learn More
Those Summer Nights | Pittsburgh Evening Activities & Nightlife
Learn More
Where to Enjoy a Summer Beer in Pittsburgh
Learn More
15 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Author
Elaine Z.
Elaine is a graduate student in the Food Studies program at Chatham University. She enjoys cooking, spending time with her loved ones, and having a book in her hand. Pittsburgh passionate, Elaine loves showing out-of-towners new places to go and restaurants to try.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map