10 Places to Grab Lunch for Under $10 in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

10 Places to Grab Lunch for Under $10 in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
12 Places to Grab Lunch for Under $10 in Pittsburgh
There are plenty of places to have a good mid-day meal on a budget!
In college, my friend group became obsessed with the early Food Network show
$40 A Day
, where celeb chef Rachel Ray visited cities across the country to try and eat great on a limited budget. As a constant seeker of a cheap lunch in my working life, I'm carrying on that same energy to this blog.
If you want to explore the great food this city has to offer but not break the bank, try these 12 places to get lunch for $10 or less.
No. 1 Sushi Sushi
436 Market St, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
If you're craving sushi, you have quite a few options in town.
No. 1 Sushi Sushi
in
Market Square
serves fresh sushi and homemade soup and salad. Save some cash by ordering rolls a la carte.
$10 or under choice:
California roll & salmon roll combo
Alihan's Coffee & Breakfast
129 6th St, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
The authentic Turkish and Mediterranean cuisine
you've come to expect from their dinner location now available for breakfast and lunch, plus a welcoming interior that you'll want to stay at all afternoon.
$10 or under choice:
Potato and Sucuk Sunny Side Up Eggs (omelet with spicy beef sausage and potatoes) or the lunch poğaça (Turkish bun stuffed with cheese, tomato and sausage)
Apollo Cafe
429 Forbes Ave #100, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Apollo Cafe
is the perfect place to stop if you're craving some homemade Mediterranean food. They have soups, salads, sandwiches and everything in between. This place is as quick as it gets for lunch. Dine in or take out.
$10 or under choice:
Large greek salad with homemade greek salad dressing, baklava for dessert.
Market Street Grocery
435 Market St, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
This local grocer has both hot food and a deli
. Their lunches are far from bland and they have different hot and ready to serve lunches daily. Grab a meal or a sandwich with homemade soup and hang out in the grocery's quaint aesthetic.
$10 or under choice:
Cup of daily homemade soup and a half of a sandwich.
Lucy's Banh Mi
2216 Penn Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
There's no website, just a small sign of today's specials outside of this street food vendor you can walk right by in the Strip District. However, Lucy's is perhaps my favorite hidden gem in this area with a deliciously seasoned sandwich piled with her signature sauce, cilantro, jalapeno and shredded carrots for the perfect bite.
$10 or under choice: The signature banh mi here is only $8 and a meal in itself.
Sunseri's
1901 Penn Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
If you miss Lucy's, head into the deli at
Sunseri's
in the Strip instead! The pepperoni rolls here reign supreme and every sandwich here is cheap enough that you can add a cannoli and still stay under budget.
$10 or under choice:
Atomic pepperoni roll or the eggplant parm sandwich
Everyday Noodles
5875 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15217
I can safely recommend
Everyday Noodles
for lunch because everything on this menu is so good, you'll be back for dinner to try the rest. Watch the noodles or dim sum you're about to order be made right in front of you, seasoned and cooked to perfection and enjoyed all in a quick lunch break.
$10 or under choice:
Dan Dan Noodles or pork vegetable potstickers. Come back for dinner for the steamed dumplings, also made fresh in-house.
Arepittas
412-428 Cherry Way, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Taste the best flavors of Argentina right here
in Pittsburgh! Delicious homemade arepas (cornmeal flat bread with a variety of stuffings) plus top notch empanadas and tacos. Great vegetarian options, too.
$10 or under choice:
Pabellon (shredded beef or vegetarian with plantains) arepas
Primanti Bros
2 Market Square, Pittsburgh, PA 15222 and locations throughout the city
In a culinary world where the $16 burger is becoming the norm, the sheer value you get for a gigantic
Primanti Bros.
sandwich is something of a miracle. This iconic Pittsburgh lunch stop still allows you to get the classics like the the Pitts-burger, capicola, pastrami and others for under $10. Piled high with cole slaw and fries, this is a complete meal that will satisfy even the hungriest appetites for
$10 or under choice:
Capicola and cheese, add an egg and still say just under $10. One of the best bites in the city.
Sree's Foods
808 Penn Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Way before I knew what vegan cuisine even was,
Sree's
was providing a healthy lunch full of flavor to everyone who happened by their unassuming location Downtown. Friendly owners who will recognize you after one visit, authentic flavors, and a cheap price point. There's a reason Sree's is lined with people in business casual all afternoon.
$10 or under choice:
Menu changes daily, but my favorite vegan options here are their cauliflower with tomato and butter beans, vegetable kofta and green beans curry. Tuesdays and Thursdays are samosa days (get there early)!
Condado Tacos
971 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Have a hankering for tacos?
Condado
has you covered with their DIY style tacos. at $3-$4 a pop, this is probably one of the best deals for lunch.
$10 or under choice:
A Dutch dragon and El Tradicional taco
Sushi & Rolls Inc.
301 Grant St # 3, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Another great sushi pick in downtown
has bento lunch specials that are a great bang for your buck if you're hungry and craving sushi. The bento boxes come in many different variations and are packed full.
$10 or under choice:
Bento box with the spicy tuna roll and teriyaki chicken.
Madonna's Mediterranean Restaurant
408 Smithfield St, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
This tiny Mediterranean and Middle Eastern restaurant
is packed daily for lunches, and one stop there will show you why. Fresh salads, wraps bursting with flavor and your favorite protein, and generous portions of falafel, kafta and your favorite sides (their grape leaves are top notch) make it easy to eat great food in a flash while staying under budget.
$10 or under choice
: The falafel entrée at $9.99 contains five perfectly fried pieces of their falafel plus pita and two sides, perfect for big appetites. All of their wraps are massive and are only $8.99.
Related Blogs
Top Places to Eat In Downtown Pittsburgh
Learn More
15 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
Learn More
A Taste of Pittsburgh’s Food Scene
Learn More
Insider’s Guide to Pittsburgh Greek Food Festivals
Learn More
Spicy Noodles of Pittsburgh
Learn More
Explore More
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Related Content:
Save
Alihan's Coffee & Breakfast
129 6th St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Alihan’s Coffee & Breakfast
Alihan's Coffee & Breakfast
129 6th St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 742-4053
Details
Website
Save
Condado Tacos
971 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Condado Tacos
Condado Tacos
971 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 281-9111
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map