A Ginger Beer Revival | Jackworth Ginger Beer in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

A Ginger Beer Revival | Jackworth Ginger Beer in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
The East End’s Jackworth Ginger Beer puts Pittsburgh on the map with a Pennsylvania first
Did you know that Pittsburgh is home to Pennsylvania's first ginger beer brewery?
It's called
Jackworth Ginger Beer
, and only a few such establishments exist in the country. Co-owners Jackworth Smith and Tyler Lewis are thrilled to be a part of this unique beverage’s revival, and they’re not taking their role lightly as the first in the state. At their brewery, they also make non-alcoholic ginger beer to offer guests, since it feels important that there’s something for everyone to enjoy inside their welcoming space.
Joining A Craft Beverage Corridor
The pair of friends (since college) say it’s been a journey getting to where they are with the business, though it’s a very “lived-in” idea they’ve been working on for years and years. They love being part of their East End community situated on the edge of Larimer, where a craft beverage corridor of sorts has emerged.
Goodlander Cocktail Brewery
(a first-of-its-kind venue specializing in low-waste draft beverages) can be found directly across the street, and hip
KLVN Coffee Lab
a stone’s throw away.
East End Brewing Company
is just around the corner, too.
Jackworth’s flagship product — which happens to be both vegan and gluten-free — is a naturally fermented ginger beer that uses only the freshest ingredients (organic ginger from Peru, cane sugar, lemon and water) and gets fermented to 5% ABV. The owners claim that the taste, crisp and refreshing with a subtle lingering spiciness, is representative of our city — “bold and refreshing.”
Finding A Special Address
For Smith, the venue location feels extra meaningful. He grew up 10 blocks away in Point Breeze, and he was named after his great grandfather who used to drive the 76 Hamilton streetcar line along this very road. The industrial setting feels perfect for their needs, and they’ve fully outfitted the rather compact space with reclaimed treasures from nearby Construction Junction (like ornate windows from a gutted mansion, marble from an old bank, even a holy water fountain).
A patio on the building’s side has proven perfect for events they’ve hosted from chill music gatherings to a “meet your maker” guest bartender series that allows local talents to show off cocktails incorporating ginger beer. (As a bonus, mixologists often want to purchase products to take back for creations made at their own bars and restaurants.) While ginger beer was once an afterthought, Jackworth is helping it get nudged back into the spotlight.
Discovering the Beverage’s Rich History
While Smith and Lewis make it clear they surely didn’t invent the beverage, they’re committed to exploring it. In 2017 Smith moved back to his hometown after living in various cities around the country, knowing he wanted to pursue this dream. He had often wondered why ginger beer was called just that, when it was in fact an alcohol-free soda used in cocktails like Moscow mules or sipped on its own. After some research he learned that actual ginger beer had been wildly popular with American folks pre-Prohibition when thousands of breweries existed; after Prohibition, however, it made a return as a non-alcoholic ginger ale alternative.
So over a decade ago, Smith began diving into century-old recipes and teaching himself about fermentation, perfecting his products as he went (working roughly off cider and mead recipes to guide the way). He says he expanded his knowledge through books, podcasts and “making a lot of really bad batches” of ginger beer along the way. Today the German wine tanks work their magic in the back of the brewery, while a full bar up front serves exclusively Pennsylvania-made beer, liquor, wine, and cider, and features classic cocktails featuring PA spirits alongside ginger beer-based cocktails.
Though they plan to experiment with new flavors in the future, the team currently sells their "Original" 5% ABV as well as their 0% ABC offerings - a “Classic” ginger beer and a “Spicy” version that’s infused with a touch of habanero. (They’re
available
in 4-pack cans, 24-pack cases, sixtel kegs and half-barrel kegs.)
Anticipating a Bright Future
The owners are incredibly excited about continued community collaborations. Food trucks and pop-ups with culinary talents like Rafael Venciol, who’s opening the city’s first Filipino restaurant, have brought about an exciting aspect to the venue that even the owners didn't anticipate.
The duo says they’re aware of the neighborhood's lower socioeconomic roots, and they’re encouraged by the planned pedestrian bridge that will help connect Larimer,
East Liberty
and
Shadyside
. Both can’t wait to see what lies ahead.
“It's an exciting time for ginger beer and for the city,” says Lewis. We, too, can’t wait to see what Jackworth does next.
Enjoying Beverages All Around the ‘Burgh
Beyond this neighborhood and Jackworth’s alluring offerings, there are countless spots around town to try innovative beverages. Visit happening spots from the Strip’s
Maggie’s Farm Rum
and
Soluna
’s back-room mezcal bar, to tiki-centric
Hidden Harbor
, Lawrenceville’s
Bar Botanico
and Bloomfield’s
Tina’s
, where they’re passionate about a 50-plus classic cocktail menu and their affordable pricing structure.
Mocktails are certainly having a moment, too, and we suspect they’re here to stay. Try N/A options at
Dear James
inside Lawrence Hall or neighboring
The Vandal
, where the Stappi Spritz is said to taste and look like a Negroni, and the Soiree melds together cucumber, lavender, verjus blanc and lemon soda. At
Kaya
, zero-proof cocktails come along with clever names like the Pina No-Lada and the No-Jito.
No matter what you’re sipping, it feels an exhilarating moment to follow along.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Tina's Cocktail Bar and Bottle Shop (@tinaspgh)
Pittsburgh: A Craft Beverage Destination
Learn More
Explore Pittsburgh’s East End!
Learn More
Shadyside
Learn More
East Liberty
Learn More
East Liberty, Garfield and Friendship: A Neighborhood Guide
Learn More
Relishing Regent Square
Learn More
Author
Corinne W
Freelance Writer & Editor
Corinne is happy to be back closer to home (D.C.) after 11 years in the glorious Pacific Northwest. Though she cherishes global adventures, she also lives for discovering local gems, from the best spots for coffee, conversation and soul-nourishing music, to water activities and trails on which to walk a loveable little husky. You can follow her on Instagram at @travelcorx
Related Content:
Save
Maggie's Farm Distilling
3212A Smallman St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Maggie’s Farm Distilling
Maggie's Farm Distilling
3212A Smallman St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201
(412) 709-6480
Details
Website
Save
Lawrence Hall
4609 Butler St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Lawrence Hall
Lawrence Hall
4609 Butler St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201
Details
Website
Save
Kaya
2000 Smallman St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Kaya
Kaya
2000 Smallman St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
(412) 261-6565
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map