Juneteenth Events 2024 in Pittsburgh, PA | Visit Pittsburgh

Juneteenth Events 2024 in Pittsburgh, PA | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Embraces Juneteenth – the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States.
Pittsburgh will celebrate the
Western Pennsylvania Juneteenth Homecoming Celebration
June 14-16, 2024, in Point State Park and
Market Square
!
This free, family-friendly event is a Celebration of all Cities and Boroughs in Allegheny County and will feature African American Culture Education, speakers, live music and local vendors!
2024 Juneteenth Homecoming Celebration | Point State Park + Market Square
2024 Performance Schedule
Friday, June 14:
Freeway + Beanie Sigel (Point State Park)
Arrested Development (Point State Park)
KLYMAXX (Market Square)
Saturday, June 15:
Elle Varner (Point State Park)
Brownstone (Point State Park)
Keke Wyatt (Point State Park)
Blackbyrds (Market Square)
Sunday, June 16:
Kelly Price (Point State Park)
Stokley (Point State Park)
Adam Hawley (Market Square)
More Event Information
2024 Juneteenth-Voting Rights Parade
WPA Juneteenth will conduct the Juneteenth-Voting Rights Parade on Saturday, June 15, 2024.
The Juneteenth-Voting Rights Parade is a reenactment of the 1870 Jubilee of Freemen Parade and Pittsburgh's 1914 Women's Suffrage Parade.
2024 Juneteenth In-The-Square | Market Square
Returning for 2024, the Juneteenth Freedom Festival will welcome dozens of minority-owned small businesses, artisans and other vendors at a Juneteenth Minority Vendor Plaza along Liberty and Penn Avenues, just outside of Point State Park.
At 10 a.m. Saturday, June 15, the Grand Jubilee Juneteenth Parade will make its way through
Downtown Pittsburgh
, followed by a voting rights forum and a salute to military service at 1 p.m.
Continue the celebration a few weeks later at the
2024 Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
, July 11-13, 2024. Also hosted at Point State Park and Market Square in Downtown Pittsburgh, the five-day festival features live jazz, gospel, hip-hop, RnB, funk, blues and soul performances.
History of Juneteenth
On
June 19, 1865
, two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, Union General Gordon Granger led thousands of federal troops to Galveston, Texas, to announce that the Civil War had ended, and slaves had been freed.
“Juneteenth” serves as a way to celebrate and commemorate the news shared on June 19, 1865. Early celebrations included reassurance among descendants, praying and gathering of remaining family members. In fact, many of the activities present at the first Juneteenth celebrations, including fishing, barbecuing and baseball, are still present today. Most importantly, the day is a time for education and self-improvement.
On June 19, 2019, Pennsylvania officially designated June 19 a state holiday – “Juneteenth National Freedom Day.” In August 2020, Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto declared that Juneteenth will become a City holiday in 2021; and in October, Allegheny County Council made Juneteenth a county holiday beginning in 2021.
For more information on the 2024 Western Pennsylvania Juneteenth Celebration & Black Music Festival, please visit their
website
.
Related Blog Posts
Black-owned Businesses in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh With a Mix of Culture & Flavor
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: August Wilson: The Writer’s Landscape
Learn More
Jazz in Pittsburgh — Birth of  Be Bop
Learn More
Only in Pittsburgh Summer Festivals & Events
Learn More
Suggested Content
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
Built by a rich history, Pittsburgh's cultural offerings and welcoming people make our vibrant city a must-see destination.
Learn More
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Celebrate the history and heritage of Black Music in America at this free festival.
Learn More
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map