Pittsburgh Trails | Hiking, Biking & Water Trails | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Trails | Hiking, Biking & Water Trails | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Things to Do
Outdoor Adventure
Trails
Trails
On foot, by bike or in the water, the ways to experience Pittsburgh and Allegheny County are endless.
Check out the extensive trail information below and begin your own outdoor urban adventure!
Hiking Trails
There are
over 700 outdoor stairways
within Pittsburgh's city limits, totaling 24,090 vertical feet. The highest concentration of city steps is in the
South Side Slopes neighborhood
which holds its annual
StepTrek
event in October that allows walkers to climb the many steps in the slopes while benefiting step maintenance in the area. Many of these steps are considered part of the local transit system, and are a great way to start exploring the city on foot.
The
Allegheny County Parks
offer over 180 miles of trails throughout the nine parks. Park visitors can download the
Allegheny County Parks Trails App
to easily choose which one to traverse by viewing its length, difficulty, and elevation profile. Visitors can also track their location and get current weather conditions. Our trails are friendly to hikers, bikers, horseback riders, and runners.
Take your exploration to the next level by delighting in the beauty of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County on one of the diverse hiking trails that stretch through 24 miles of the city. The
Three Rivers Heritage Trail System
is a 33-mile trail and greenway system that goes through Downtown Pittsburgh running along both sides of the Allegheny, Monongahela and Ohio Rivers. The trail connects Downtown to adjacent city areas including Oakland, the North Shore, the South Side and the Strip District.
Venture a little further into Allegheny County on the
Rachel Carson Trail
a 35.7-mile day-hike trail connecting
North Park
in central Allegheny County to
Harrison Hills County Park
in its northeast corner. This diverse trail ranges from paved areas to rugged terrain and steep inclines.
The Great Allegheny Passage
Get ready for the ride of your life as you bike the
Great Allegheny Passage
, 335 miles of adventure spreading across two states and the District of Columbia. The Great Allegheny Passage is one smooth ride stretching 150 miles from Cumberland, Md., through the Laurel Highlands and into Pittsburgh offering travelers fun on two wheels or two feet. Outdoor adventurers won't want to miss the scenic trail that
Livability.com
acclaimed as one of the best and longest multipurpose trails in the East.
In Cumberland, the GAP joins the 185-mile C&O Canal Towpath creating a 335-mile continuous trail experience to Washington, D.C. These nearly-level trails bring adventurers into the heart of the majestic western Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia wilderness as they travel through
charming trail towns
and near National Landmarks such as famed architect
Frank Lloyd Wright's Fallingwater
.
Explore the trail on your own or with a group,
Golden Triangle Bike Rental
is your one-stop-shop for all things GAP. Their services range from "fully-equipped" bike rental packages to shuttle service to
trip planning and fully-supported tours
. Whether you are pedaling out 5 miles or riding all the way to/from D.C., check in with Golden Triangle for everything you need to make your adventure on the GAP a success
Biking Trails
Pittsburgh's unique topographic blend of steep, winding hills and flat river areas makes it one of the best cities for cycling enthusiasts. Looking for an urban cycling adventure? Check out the
Eliza Furnace Trail
, a part of the larger
Three Rivers Heritage Trail
that runs through the city and offers many
bike rack sites
for easy storage as you explore one of the many unique neighborhoods along the trail. Need a lift to your next trail? Pittsburgh's bike friendly public transit operator the
Port Authority
allows riders many options to store their bikes while taking a ride to their next destination.
Perhaps you crave a more scenic route - with a ride that winds through 19 miles of Pittsburgh Steel history - along the Steel Valley section of the
Great Allegheny Passage
, the 335-mile trail connecting Washington, D.C., to Pittsburgh. Mountain bikers, be sure to check out the
Pittsburgh Off-Road Cyclists
for more information on great trails and Pittsburgh''s thriving mountain bike community.
If you forgot the bike at home, Golden Triangle Bike has it covered with bike rentals and maps to take you across the city or along the Great Allegheny Passage.
Water Trails
Pittsburgh sits at a unique confluence of rivers unlike any other in the world, and its diversity is more abundant than any other state except Alaska. The
three rivers
that meet in Pittsburgh are actually a vast watershed of more than a dozen unique creeks and river systems that include more than 30,000 miles of rivers and streams extending into New York and West Virginia. These clean and accessible waters have become a stunning icon of Pittsburgh's environmental transformation and allow you to experience the city from a new vantage point.
Kayak Pittsburgh
lets you paddle down the
Allegheny River
and take in the city sites of Downtown and the North Shore from the water. Row up one of the United States'' only North flowing rivers, the
Monongahela
with
Three Rivers Rowing
which offers Free Learn to Row and Paddle Days.
Spend an afternoon boating from one of the seventeen marinas in Allegheny County along the three rivers, offering river access, dining and boat maintenance. Station Square on the South Shore offers public docks at Bessemer Court, for easy river access to downtown shopping and dining. Also within the city limits are four
public boat launches
, one on the Monongahela River in the South Side and three along the Allegheny River. Pittsburgh's 38.3 miles of river shoreline within the city limits offers ample space for fishing and western Pennsylvania's
state parks
abound with well-stocked lakes and streams.
Adventurers are sure to stop by
Ohiopyle State Park
, where the Youghiogheny River boasts class III and IV rapids and is considered to be some of the best whitewater in the east. Check out
White Water Adventurers
and
Laurel Highlands River Tours
for more information on the rapids.
Local Trail Organizations & Outdoors Clubs
Allegheny Trail Alliance
The Great Allegheny Passage rail-trail offers 150 miles of hiking and biking between Cumberland, Md. and Pittsburgh. IN Cumberland, the GAP joins the C&O Canal Towpath, creating a continuous trail experience, 335 miles long to Washington, D.C.
DCNR Rails to Trails Guide
Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources information on trails proposed, open and under construction.
Friends of the Riverfront
Increases awareness and engagement with the Pittsburgh region’s rivers and riverfronts through activities, stewardship and expansion of water and land trails.
Rachel Carson Trails Conservancy
A nonprofit, volunteer-based organization dedicated to the development, protection and promotion of hiking, biking and walking trails throughout western Pennsylvania.
Allegheny Outdoor Club
An organization based in northwestern Pennsylvania that maintains a weekly schedule of hosted hiking, biking, winter skiing activities and special events.
Explorers Club of Pittsburgh
Founded in 1947, the club is devoted to outdoor exploration and adventure in the western Pennsylvania region. Members participate in activities as diverse as mountaineering, rock climbing, skiing, scuba diving, canoeing, kayaking, caving, cycling, backpacking, environmental and community service projects, and a host of outdoor sports.
Keystone Ramblers
Local organization that maintains a schedule of hikes arranged into different themed series.
Venture Outdoors
A nonprofit organization devoted to increasing participation in outdoor recreational activity through sponsorship of biking, hiking, kayaking, fishing, climbing, nature observation and skiing in the western Pennsylvania region.
When you're enjoying outdoor activities, always remember to be safe. The
Outdoor Safety Health Guide
is a great way to enjoy the outdoors safely!
Authentic Experiences
Family Fun
Won't you be our neighbor?
Details
Fishing, Kayaking & Boating
Pittsburgh sits at a unique confluence of rivers unlike any other in the world, diverse and more abundant than any other state except Alaska.
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map