Top 10 Under-the-Radar Places to Shop in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Top 10 Under-the-Radar Places to Shop in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
15 Unique Places To Shop For Gifts In and Around Pittsburgh
Looking for some unique gift ideas? Check out these Pittsburgh based gems.
The holiday season is in full effect and we want to help your gift giving and buying a little easier. As you are crossing names off your list and trying to shop local as much as possible, here are 15 one-of-a-kind gems in Pittsburgh including boutiques, shops, galleries and more.
Felt Happiness
Milliner Juliane Gorman creates wearable art hats that are useful, comfortable and flattering. Once upon a time, hats were worn because of custom. Now, you make your own traditions. You don’t need a wedding or a derby as an excuse to wear a hat. All of her handcrafted, felted hats are made in Gibsonia, Pennsylvania. Wear a vibrant, sculptural hat and tap into your inner beauty.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Jamie Hamilton (@jamie_jetaime)
Gallery on Penn
5935-5939 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Gallery on Penn is a retail incubator space created to support local, minority business owners with a chance to test their products and the market. You can find anything from art, lingerie, accessories, to decorative items and apparel.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh City Paper (@pghcitypaper)
Third Day Soaps
Third Day Soaps Garden is a holistic skin and body care company founded by Cynthia Hill. You can purchase therapeutic herbal bath and body products, soaps, lotions, creams, body scrubs, facial products for men and women, herbal teas, and more.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Cynthia Hill (@thirddaysoapsgarden)
Daily Bread
5450 Penn Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Daily Bread is a lifestyle brand founded by Bill Niels of Mac Miller’s Most Dope crew in 2009. Based in Pittsburgh and born in the city's skateboarding, graffiti, and hip-hop scenes, they represent a new generation of hustlers and creatives from all walks of life and have great street wear options.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Daily Bread (@dailybread)
Refresh PGH
Refresh PGH is Pittsburgh's 1st Sneaker Consignment/Buy & Sell Boutique offering a wide selection of rare sneakers, sneaker products, clothing and apparel.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Refresh PGH / The Vault (@refreshpgh)
Style Exchange Boutique
4211 Saw Mill Run Blvd, Pittsburgh, PA 15227
If you hate paying full price and love a designer deal on a dollar, you must check out Style Exchange Boutique. From J Crew to Jimmy Choo, special occasion gowns to Louis Vuitton and MCM handbags, experience the thrill of the find at a fraction of retail prices every day!
Afar Clothing Company
Afar Clothing brand offers an exclusive line of limited edition streetwear apparel for the fashion conscious. Their motto is: “Life Is A Journey, Travel The Distance.” They are currently running a sale for 50% of all online merchandise while supplies last.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by afar Clothing Company (@afarclothingofficial)
Kawaii Gifts
Because who doesn't want a gigantic plush Kirby (I do, send it to me). With more than 20 years in business, this adorable Shadyside shop sells collectible vinyl toys, exciting surprise boxes, K-Pop albums and merchandise, K-Beauty products and more gifts perfect for the gamer, K-pop and anime fan on your list.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by 🌈💕 Kawaii Gifts 🌈💕 (@shopkawaiigifts)
Lawrenceville Market House
Stop in for great coffee, then walk around this former bank converted into retail featuring local artists and vendors! Find Blakley Jean jewelry, Two Faced Ceramics, Pittsburgh-themed stickers from Emily M, Authentically African by Moa and tons more in this amazing space full of great shopping.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Lawrenceville Market House (@lvmarkethouse)
Love, Pittsburgh
Pierogi onesie ✔️ Pittsburghese candles ✔️ Pickle ornaments
✔️
Get your holiday shopping for the yinzer inside all of us at Love, Pittsburgh. This woman-owned business is the ultimate Pittsburgh gift shop, with 100+ local artists and makers contributing their wares for a truly unique shopping experience.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by love, Pittsburgh (@lovepittsburghshop)
Mello and Sons Vintage
Denim hunters, this is the stop for you. Vintage Levis, jackets, cutoffs, tees and much more in this Lawrenceville shop. Plus, you're going to love the friendly vibes here as the friendly owner shows you the wares and spins vinyl at the same time.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Mello & Sons (@melloandsons)
Soil Sisters
In Allentown, woman- and Black-owned Soil Sisters is a small business that has made a big impact to gardens throughout the city and suburbs. Not only are the seedlings and houseplants you go home with tended to with the utmost care, the friendly owners are happy to share their tips to ensure your growing garden is a success.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Kelly Girls (@soilsisters412)
Kiya Tomlin
Clothes made for real women who live real lives and have real bodies. That's the promise from Kiya Tomlin, a fashion designer with a self-named store in Etna. And, if you're shopping for an NFL fan, Tomlin (notice the name? Her husband is Steelers coach Mike Tomlin) has exclusive collaborations with 22+ teams including the Pittsburgh Steelers for leggings, tops, shorts, and more you won't find anywhere else.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Kiya Tomlin (@kiyatomlin)
Kards Unlimited
When you need the perfect card to tie your present together, head to Kards Unlimited in Shadyside. This truly one-of-a-kind store is absolutely crammed with the most unique greeting cards you're going to find in the city, but is also the perfect gift shop full of ephemera including novelty mugs, pins, books, puzzles and Pittsburgh-based gifts sure to make everyone on your list jolly.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Kards Unlimited (@kardsunlimited)
Paititi Inti
Imported gifts from Peru fill this small Squirrel Shop from floor to ceiling. One of the kindest shop owners anywhere is happy to help you browse clothing, stones, jewelry, pottery and other handmade goods and leave with the perfect gifts.
Related Blogs
Making the Gifting Season Merry + Bright | Handmade Arcade
Learn More
2023 Pittsburgh Holiday Gift & Shopping Guide | Shop Local
Learn More
Vintage Clothing & Thrifting in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Peoples Gas Holiday Market™
Learn More
Occult, Metaphysical & Tarot Shops for your Witchy Self
Learn More
Lawrenceville: Neighborhood Guide
Learn More
Author
Asaka N.
Related Content:
Save
love, Pittsburgh
805 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
love, Pittsburgh
love, Pittsburgh
805 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 281-1359
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map