Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination
​Pittsburgh is especially family friendly thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages.
Pittsburgh is especially family friendly thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages, from riding thrilling coasters to discovering exotic birds, walking among the dinosaurs and much more. In fact, it’s even known as KidsBURGH®! With an experience fit for every member of the family, Pittsburgh is bursting with history, science, entertainment and adventure just waiting to be discovered.
Minutes from Downtown,
Kennywood
is one of Pittsburgh's beloved historic landmarks with endless excitement for thrill-seeking adults and children alike, including three wooden roller coasters, Pennsylvania's fastest (Phantom's Revenge) and tallest (Steel Curtain) coasters, and dozens of other great attractions for all ages. Plus, Kennywood celebrated its 125th season in 2023 with the grand opening of
Spinvasion
, the first multi-action spin ride of its kind in the U.S. pitting riders in a thrilling battle against alien invaders to defend Pittsburgh.
The
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
is another Pittsburgh staple offering families year-round fun for 125 years with exciting animal exhibits and educational experiences.
Other longstanding family-friendly attractions that parents can feel especially good about due to the integration of educational and cultural experiences in fun settings include the
Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh
,
Heinz History Center
,
Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History
,
National Aviary
and
more
.
There are also numerous new attractions for the whole family to enjoy.
Moonshot Museum
is Pennsylvania’s first space museum and the first museum in the world to focus on career and community readiness for the 21st century space industry. Visitors can embark on simulated lunar missions inspired by real space industry challenges, meet space professionals and find their place in the future of human space exploration from Mission Control in Pittsburgh's Northside. Plus, Moonshot Museum offers the unparalleled opportunity to see a real spacecraft being built – an experience unlike any other in the world.
The
Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center
also has a new 7,400-square-foot permanent exhibit, titled
Mars: The Next Giant Leap
, which launches visitors on a 300-million-mile journey to Mars, where they will explore relevant, contemporary issues that surround space exploration. It’s the most expansive new experience added since the Science Center opened in 1991.
In addition to the many attractions and museums perfect for families, Pittsburgh also has plenty of opportunities to
get outdoors
and explore the city’s 90 unique neighborhoods, from hiking and biking to kayaking, paddleboarding, boating and more. Kids can take joy in keeping track of how many of the 700 outdoor stairways and
446 walkable bridges
within Pittsburgh’s limits their family conquers during their trip.
In exploring, visitors are bound to come across many festivals and events held across the city year-round, such as the
EQT Children's Theater Festival
,
Dollar Bank Three Rivers Arts Festival
,
Picklesburgh
and more. Many of these festivals are free to attend and offer another great opportunity for families to experience the best food and culture in Pittsburgh.
Families also won’t want to miss an opportunity to see the most spectacular panorama of the city from a birds-eye view by taking a ride on
one of Pittsburgh's famous inclines
! The observation deck at the top of Mt. Washington is the best spot to snap a picture of Pittsburgh’s skyline and three rivers. Plus, the
Duquesne Incline
has historical exhibits in the waiting rooms for entertainment between rides.
In regard to food and beverage, there are plenty of options sure to please even the pickiest of eaters, from fast-casual models or restaurants the don’t require reservations like
Mad Mex
,
Square Cafe
and
Noodlehead
to fun interactive spots like
Shorty’s Pins x Pints
and
Coop De Ville
. There’s even kid-friendly breweries like
Threadbare Cider House
,
East End Brewery
,
Spoonwood Brewing Co.
and
Southern Tier
.
Author
Alex Soller
Communications & Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map