Guide to Live Music in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Guide to Live Music in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh's Music Scene
Pittsburgh's music scene is full of talented artists you don't want to miss!
I’ve been lucky enough to perform live music for about twenty years, travelling as a musician to many other cities (and occasionally another Country or two), and I can truly say that there is no musical community anywhere on Earth quite like Pittsburgh.
In Pittsburgh, my first live musical experiences were as a spectator in 1990’s all-ages clubs, watching hip-hop artists like Strict Flow share the bill with emo bands and space-rockers such as Juliana Theory and New Invisible Joy. I’m now a little past performing regularly myself -- I would most likely be considered a ‘Dad Rocker’ at this point -- but with a bit of distance, I realized that I’ve witnessed entire generations and genres of amazing hometown artists come, grow, sometimes stay, and sometimes move along to other things. Above all else, I’m truly inspired by this continued trend of cross-genre collaboration so celebrated by Pittsburgh’s current crop of musicians, where it’s not uncommon to see an acoustic folk group perform alongside an EDM artist or hip-hop act, all united around a common love of song.
Pittsburgh has been named one of the
Best Cities for Musicians to Live in America
by rent.com!
Here are a few of the Pittsburgh performers that have leapt out at me in recent years, particularly ones who continue to create inspiring work during the most challenging era that modern popular music has ever encountered.
Buffalo Rose
This modern folk/American band blends the best of classic acoustic bluegrass with impassioned three-part harmony vocals, and their live performances are truly haunting. The band has been featured in NPR’s All Songs Considered series, as well as American Songwriter magazine, and to me they embody that feeling of rallying your community, breaking beyond being just ‘your friend’s band’ to receiving widespread recognition and chart positions on hometown radio station WYEP-FM.
Borrowed & Blue: Live Around One Microphone by Buffalo Rose
Roger Romero / f3ralcat
I first met Roger as a saxophone player working together in regional wedding bands, and was soon drawn into his F3ralcat project, a mix of jazz fusion, prog, and improvization alongside some of the hardest-hitting young musicians around. Roger grew up in a bi-cultural Bronx family, and we couldn’t be happier to now have him in Pittsburgh, releasing amazing music with f3ralcat like the new single “Anselm The Wise’ and an expected full-length in 2021.
Anselm the Wise by Feralcat and the Wild
Mars Jackson
An unbelievable hometown hip-hop talent, Mars seems to have the ability to capture the attention of any crowd, anytime, of any size or in any location. One of my favorite musical memories ever is sharing a stage with Mars and my own band one beautiful Spring evening outdoors at the Carnegie Museum of Art sculpture garden, to a crowd of art critics, curious city dwellers, and college students.
Look Up (feat. Cam Chambers) by Mars Jackson
Sad Girls Aquatics Club
This indie-pop duo melds an atmospheric synth sound with great hooks, cool visuals, and a dark sense of humor. Their music video for
‘How Do I
Get What I Want?’
, produced locally at the end of 2019, is hands-down the best music video I have ever seen from a Pittsburgh artist, in which both members play a variety of characters in a quirky and gorgeously photographed high school setting...and the song’s chorus will never leave your brain.
Vodkawine by sad girls aquatics club
Clara Kent
Winner of Pittsburgh City Paper’s top ‘People Of The Year’ Honor in 2019, Clara is equal parts vocalist, poet, and public speaker, with a voice that must be heard to
be believed. While bundled up at Downtown Pittsburgh’s Light Up Night 2019, my family and I rang in the Holiday season to Clara’s singing as a featured on-stage performer, with none other than Mr. McFeely as her opening act.
A U R A｜The Mixtape by Clara Kent
Meeting of Important People
I will include my own band in this list only as collaborators of the amazing City Theater Drive-In Music Festival outdoor series that took place this past Fall, in which we performed a live rock-and-roll show to a parking lot full of cars. The weather was amazing, and City Theater provided the perfect Pandemic live music experience with a large drive-in screen projecting the video feed, and the audio mix beamed safely to each car. Once we got used to the headlights flashing and horns honking instead of applause, I think we loosened up just enough to put on a decent show.
Troika Demos 2012-2015 by Meeting of Important People
Author
Josh V.
Josh Verbanets is a Pittsburgh-based singer, songwriter, and guitarist, best known as the front-person for hometown indie rock band Meeting of Important People and as one-half of celebrated children's performing duo Josh & Gab.  Josh has recorded with producer Brian Deck (Modest Mouse, Iron & Wine), starred in a viral cardboard city music video, and received honors as one of Pittsburgh's "40 Under 40" by Pittsburgh Magazine.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map