Pittsburgh Walking Tours | Guided and Self-Guided | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Walking Tours | Guided and Self-Guided | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
< Back
Pittsburgh Walking Tours
Walk, tour, eat and explore
Inclines. Trolleys. Riverboats. There's plenty of unique ways to get around Pittsburgh. But sometimes, your own two feet are all you need to experience the best of Pittsburgh's unique 90 neighborhoods.
Unsure where to start? Pittsburgh has a variety of guided and self-guided walking tour companies that let you enjoy the architecture, culture and flavors of the city and make the most out of your visit. Read on for our recommendations of walking tour companies or tips for creating your own tour.
Walk the Burgh Tours
When it comes to the sheer variety of tours available,
Walk the Burgh Tours
is the go-to place for tours year-round. If you're new to the city, the Best of the Burgh Tour is your best bet to see the highlights of Downtown and the Cultural District including Market Square, public art and the hidden gems they know best.
Return visitors or those with a more specialized interest also have plenty to pick from. Walk the Burgh Tours offers their incredibly popular Black & Ghost Tour and Whiskey Walking Tour throughout the year, as well as the Hollywood East Tour for movie buffs on select Saturdays.
Insider Tip:
If you can walk uneven terrain and can do ~150 steps, book the Simply Steps tour for a one-of-a-kind exploration of Troy Hill and Spring Garden that is sure to be the highlight of your visit.
Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation | Guided and Self-Guided
Looking for a more specialized tour for a group? The
Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation
is your white glove solution to tailor-make an itinerary full of expert commentary and related information to suit your unique needs.
Their website also contains several
self-guided walks
, and I highly recommend their
Exploring Pittsburgh
book to help provide context on your travels if you're going solo. On Mondays, you can even tour the Old Allegheny County Jail Museum through their preservation efforts.
Insider Tip:
Locals, you'll love this tour, too. I'm a Pittsburgh native and I learned more about this city on their two hour architectural walking tour than I have in the previous 30 years living here.
DOORS OPEN Pittsburgh
When you're ready to leave Downtown and explore even more, DOORS OPEN Pittsburgh takes you into even more neighborhoods with their popular guided walking tours, insider tours and neighborhood events.
Walk "Millionaire Row" in the Northside, explore Carnegie Mellon University's campus, go on an Oakland Walk of Fame and much more with tours that vary Saturdays and Sundays April-Sept.
'Burgh Bits & Bites Food Tours
The perfect Pittsburgh pairing is fantastic food with any activity. This makes
'Burgh Bits & Bites
a fan-favorite, offering two-ish hour tours that involve lots of stopping to savor the local cuisine.
Put on your comfiest shoes and your stretchiest pants - you will be stuffed after Italian pastries, Polish pierogis, Greek specialties and so much more on your tour led by friendly experts.
Homewood Experience
You don't need to book a tour company to enjoy the history and richness of Pittsburgh. Take the community-driven
Homewood Experience
Artwalk that takes visitors on a self-guided walk past special installations, murals historic buildings and other cultural landmarks to preserve the history of this community.
Rivers of Steel
To truly dive into Pittsburgh's steel heritage, book a
Rivers of Steel
tour that will take you in and all around the National Landmark Carrie Blast Furnaces. The Industrial Tour focuses on the site's iron-making history, while the Arts & Grounds Tour shows off the impressive creations this location inspires and the Iron Garden Walk is botanist-led, taking you around the wild gardens and grounds.
Insider Tip:
Watch the calendar for events and festivals happening here as well. Tours can often be booked the same day, letting you truly appreciate this venue with a guided tour before coming back out to the festival.
Free Pittsburgh Walking Tours
Take an engaging and entertaining tour of what it's really like to be a Pittsburgher (and even learn authentic Pittsburghese) with
Free Pittsburgh Walking Tours
of Downtown and the North Side. These tours are name-your-own-price; simply pay your guide with cash or via Venmo at the end of your tour as much as you like.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Free Pittsburgh Walking Tours (@freepittsburghtours)
Redbuds & North Shore Monuments Walking Tours | VisitPittsburgh
We've developed some exclusive walking tours to help you out, too. Discover the history of Pittsburgh in our
North Shore Monument Walking Tour
to discover Mr. Rogers, the location of the Steelers' Immaculate Reception play and more. Or, take a leisurely stroll across the North Shore and through downtown and the South Side each spring to see the
redbuds in bloom
.
Redbuds in bloom
Make Your Own
Pssst. Also, feel free to disregard all of the above and just make your own tour. That's the beauty of Pittsburgh being so walkable. Grab a
map
, pick a neighborhood, and explore it end to end.
Try easy walks like Lawrenceville and the Strip District first, then move on to Squirrel Hill, Bloomfield, Shadyside and Millvale. The opportunities are endless and, no matter where you pick, you're sure to find somewhere new and return home knowing more about Pittsburgh than ever!
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
Related Blogs
10 Things to Do on Pittsburgh’s Three Rivers
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Pittsburgh Redbuds
Learn More
Monuments, Memorials & Sculptures | A North Shore Walking Tour
Learn More
Pittsburgh’s Must-See Murals
Learn More
Homewood is Home
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Related Content:
Save
Free Pittsburgh Walking Tours
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Free Pittsburgh Walking Tours
(412) 253-7515
Details
Website
Save
Walk The Burgh Tours
1049 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Walk The Burgh Tours
Walk The Burgh Tours
1049 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 246-9494
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map