Where to Buy Face Masks in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Where to Buy Face Masks in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
"Wear" to Buy Face Masks in Pittsburgh
Show your Pittsburgh Pride and support local businesses with custom face coverings.
When we all do our part, we can all #TravelConfidently. Wear your mask, keep a safe distance and regularly wash your hands— no matter where you are in the U.S.
Pittsburghers helping Pittsburghers. It’s what we do. And wearing a mask helps us all stay safe and healthy. Check out these local businesses selling face masks to sport your Pittsburgh Pride.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by David Alan Clothing (@davidalanclothing)
Commonwealth Press
Pittsburgh screen printing company
Commonwealth Press
is selling
face mask packs
. The pack includes ten masks made from 100% U.S. Cotton and is washable and breathable. Masks are available in solid white or black colors and usually ship within 24-28 hours.
David Alan Clothing
Men’s custom clothing company,
David Alan Clothing
created a
dedicated face mask line
as reminder that we’re all in this together. Create a custom mask with your logo or
choose from different packs
including a family pack with two adult and two kid masks.
Definitely You
Located in Brentwood Towne Square,
Definitely You
specializes in Pittsburgh sports apparel and memorabilia. Now available online, purchase a matching
Pittsburgh-themed mask and shirt
combo set for $8.
Share your Story on Social #lovepgh
Kiya Tomlin
Designer
Kiya Tomlin’s
mission is to create clothes that simplify life and not style. Focusing on women’s clothing and accessories, the company has a variety of face masks ranging from bright flowers and designs to
sports teams
and solid black. A variety of fabric options are available with a portion of the proceeds supporting healthcare workers.
Knotzland
Known for custom bowties, Homewood’s
Knotzland
now has hand-made masks available. The masks use upcycled cotton on the outside and a 100% double layered cotton muslin inside. Knotzland has more than 40 designs and styles to choose from including a mystery mask for a fun surprise!
MazeToons
Pittsburgh
Cartoon Illustrator Joe Wos
turned his favorite mazes into MazeToons masks. Made from Quilted Jersey, face masks are available in small, medium or large and are handmade to order.
Pitt Panthers Team Store
ShopPittPanthers.com
, the official team store of Pitt Athletics, has various
Pitt masks available
. Safely Hail to Pitt this season with a Pitt Script or Panther mask.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh’s Seamstress (@topazthimble)
Steel City
Located in the heart of downtown,
Steel City
is a clothing store featuring vintage tees inspired by the greatest moments in Pittsburgh sports and pop-culture.
Adult and kid face masks
branded with Steel City are available for online or in-store purchase.
Topaz Thimble
Kati Lynn Grimes, founder of
Topaz Thimble
is a custom embroidery business specializing in alterations. Currently, a
variety of face masks
are available including kid masks, pride-themed masks, zip bags for mask storage and mask and bandana sets for you and your favorite four-legged friend.
Yinzers in the Burgh
Yinzers in the Burgh
in Pittsburgh’s Strip District has many
sports scarves and designed face masks
available. Face masks are $5, range in designs and sizes and are available for in-store or online purchase.
Custom Branded Masks
Looking for a branded mask for your business? Check out these local businesses offering custom masks just for you!
Accents on Apparel
Accents on Apparel
is a professional embroidery and screen-printing company located in Mars, PA. The company has various
face masks and coverings available
for wholesale and custom designs.
Armory Print Works
Armory Print Works
is a full-service, vertically integrated, marketing merchandise company that produces screen printed and embroidered apparel as well as promotional marketing materials.
Custom face masks
are available in multiple material options and range in price.
Pro Knitwear
Located in the heart of Pittsburgh's Brookline neighborhood,
Pro Kit Wear
is a full-service apparel decoration company. Products and services include screen printing, embroidery, heat press, vinyl, cut/sew, sublimation and more.
Custom face masks
are available in cold color or custom design and are machine washable.
We are sure there are some places we've missed, if you know of a business we should add, please email
info@visitpittsburgh.com
so we can add it to our list!
Author
Asaka N.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map