Insider's Guide: Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium | Visit Pittsburgh

Insider's Guide: Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Insider's Guide: Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
Visit Pittsburgh’s wild neighbors at the Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium!
Plan Your Visit
Explore 77 acres of fun at the Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium! Become immersed as you make your journey through different areas of the Zoo. Featuring more than 8,000 animals from 600 species, the Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium is one of only a handful of zoo and aquarium combinations in the country.
Animals you may see along the way include red pandas, lions, elephants, giraffes, sea lions, penguins, and more. Read on for insider tips to get the most out of your next visit!
Tickets can be
purchased online
to save time at the admission gates.
Membership
Visit the Zoo for free as often as you like for an entire year with a Zoo Membership! A membership pays for itself in just two visits and offers plenty of benefits including free admission during regular business hours, free parking, discounts to educational classes and gift shops, and more.
Buy, renew or gift a membership today!
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium (@pghzoo)
Don't Miss a Thing
There's so much to do at Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium, and we don't want anyone getting FOMO. Use this as a check list to make sure you see it all:
Wild Encounters
Get closer than you’ve ever imagined to some of your favorite Zoo residents! Wild Encounters are a 30 minute private experience with Zoo animals and an expert that can accommodate a group of up to five guests. Your Wild Encounter also includes Zoo admission.
Book your Wild Encounter here
.
Themed Areas
The Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium is separated into
nine different, themed sections
including many indoor and outdoor areas with interactive, kid-friendly exhibits. Be sure to explore all nine areas for the ultimate zoo and aquarium trip!
Forest Passage
African Savanna
Tropical Forest
The Islands
Jungle Odyssey
Aquarium
Water's Edge
Kids Kingdom
Worlds of Discovery
VR Gorilla Trek
Yeah, this one is a must. Experience a
360-degree VR film
with motion platform seating that follows mountain gorillas in their natural habitat. You'll be transported to Rwanda to see baby gorillas play, mom's nurture and the alpha silverback fight for dominance over the family all without leaving your seat.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium (@pghzoo)
Insider's Tips
I've been taking my son to Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium for almost a decade now, and have picked just a few tips along the way I like to pass on to fellow parents. Hopefully these help during your next visit, too:
Do the zoo in reverse
- Most people come into Pittsburgh Zoo and follow the path left to the elephants. If you notice large groups of people heading that way, go right instead. This shortcut will take you right to the aquarium and hands-on Kids Kingdom and Worlds of Discovery areas full of playgrounds, bouncy bridges and more to explore. Then, complete the rest of the Zoo in reverse to beat the crowds.
Take the Tram
- Little ones refusing to take another step? No worries, a Tram stops throughout the zoo for an easy lift back to the main gates.
Go early
- My crew loves getting to the zoo right when it opens to beat the crowds.
It's ok to get messy
- Bring your wet wipes and shoes you don't mind getting dirty. Pittsburgh Zoo has sand, playgrounds and lots more where your little ones may get a little dirty.
Find unique dining spots
- The Jambo Grill, located in the middle of the Zoo, is a great place to have lunch as the giraffes graze alongside you. But consider bringing your meal a bench at the African Savanna to watch the ostriches run around, or snack right by the sea lions to watch them play as you chow down.
Don't miss Jungle Odyssey
- Located behind The Islands area, you might miss the winding path that takes you up to Jungle Odyssey, the home of some of my favorite animals at the zoo, including the pygmy hippo, giant anteater and ocelot.
Go underwater
- As you circle the polar bear, keep heading down until you can go underneath the Water's Edge, allowing you to walk in massive tunnels that allow one-of-a-kind views of the polar bears and elephant seals
Re-Visit on the way back
- If an animal you love was sleeping or not visible when you came in, check again on the way out! Some of my best photos from Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium visits come from my last-minute snaps of my favorites.
Stroller-friendly
- It's always a debate of whether or not to bring the stroller, but this is one place I always recommend just bringing it. Pittsburgh Zoo has hilly terrain and requires some serious trekking to see it all, plus the paths are nice and wide throughout, making the park easy to navigate.
Bonus Tip:
Take the Zoo Path at the entrance to avoid the line for the elevator.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium (@pghzoo)
Special Events
In addition to daily animal excitement, the Zoo offers special programs throughout the year. For the latest updates and additional offerings, please visit the
Events page
on their website.
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
Related Blogs
Insider’s Guide to Pittsburgh’s Millvale Neighborhood
Learn More
Cheer on the Pittsburgh Riverhounds
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Idlewild & SoakZone
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Liberty Magic
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: National Aviary
Learn More
Related Content:
Save
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
7370 Baker St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15206
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
7370 Baker St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15206
(412) 665-3640
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map