Top 11 Things to Do with a Family in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Top 11 Things to Do with a Family in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Top 11 Things to Do with a Family in Pittsburgh
In Pittsburgh, summer is the perfect time to explore all the family fun the city has to offer!
While you're here, be sure to check out these
can't-miss family friendly things to do
in Pittsburgh, a city that welcomes all our neighbors!
Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History
Get double the fun at the
CMOA
and
CMNH
! Located in Pittsburgh's Oakland neighborhood, these two world-class museums share a building and offer tons of interactive and hands-on experiences for kids. Drop in any day for all-ages art-making the whole family can enjoy. Explore the galleries and learn something new at the CMOA and then head over to the CMNH for colossal dinosaurs, gems millions of years in the making, and much more.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Mel + Luke | RV Family • Digital Nomads • Worldschoolers (@lahrs.with.latitude)
Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center
Pittsburgh's
Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center
takes interactive learning to a new level! Explore a hands-on robot exhibit, test your fitness at Highmark SportsWorks, catch an IMAX show, venture to extraterrestrial fun at the Buhl Planetarium, and so much more! Kids will learn about their environment while interacting with amazing science exhibitions.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Maria Gismondi (@maria.a.la.motion)
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh
Summer
= Fun @
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh
including Very Eric Carle: A Very Hungry, Quiet, Lonely, Clumsy, Busy Exhibit and the Curious GeorgeÔ: Let’s Get Curious! through September 8. And, at Museum Lab™, cutting edge experiences in art, tech and learning abound daily for kids ages 10+, at this new museum for older kids.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by @kgdunk
Duquesne Incline
Ascend
Mt. Washington
to a place USA Today calls one of the 10 Most Beautiful Views in America. You get 140 years of history when you ride the
Duquesne Incline
. Families with kids of all ages love
riding the picturesque, historic cable cars
while peering over the emerging panoramic view of Pittsburgh. There's a viewing platform and a welcome center at the top, plus a behind-the-scenes look at the hoisting equipment.
Gateway Clipper
A trip to Pittsburgh isn't complete without an adventure on the famous three rivers! Book an excursion on the majestic
Gateway Clipper
and select a kid-friendly themed boat ride like the Ice Cream Sundae Tour, Good Ship Lollipop Cruise, Princess Cruise, Superhero Cruise, or a Pirate themed adventure with an exhilarating musical performance, the Pirate Dinner feast.
Heinz History Center
Visit Pennsylvania's largest history museum! Complete with its own extensive Sports Museum, the
Senator John Heinz History Center
engages and amazes kids of all ages. You'll find original set pieces from Mister Roger's Neighborhood, a play area spanning two levels with a spiral slide, and learn all about Pittsburgh's extensive history, sports legacy and cultural heritage.
Idlewild & Soakzone
It's no wonder
Idlewild & Soakzone
is recognized as the Best Children's Amusement Park! At Idlewild, you can step inside a fairytale with Storybook Forest. You'll be transported right inside fairytale favorites with a larger-than-life forest of whimsy. Don't miss Daniel Tiger's trolley! Plus, with adult rides, kids' rides, and a waterpark, Idlewild is a full day of family fun!
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Zayn Woods (@zaynwoods)
Kennywood
Pittsburgh's historic
Kennywood Amusement Park
is a 110-year-old, beloved family tradition. This summer is particularly special for Kennywood with the reopening of a family favorite attraction, Noah's Ark, the nation's only operational attraction of its kind. From thrilling new rides to historic coasters, it isn't summer without a family trip to Kennywood!
National Aviary
Visit the official
National Aviary
and meet more than 500 birds! A trip to The Aviary is an immersive experience with walk-through exhibitions that put you inside bird environments, giving you opportunities to hand-feed bird species rarely seen in North America. Kids adore Penguin Point, where they can crawl through a tunnel to find themselves amidst the adorable penguins!
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Vanessa (@just_bunz)
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
Wild fun awaits at the
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
! With 77 acres and approximately 4,000 creatures to meet, the Pittsburgh & Aquarium epitomizes family fun. Don't miss the Zoo's newest space, The Islands, where you'll find a tropical beach atmosphere and lovable island animals.
More Family Fun
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Details
Top 25 Things to Do in Pittsburgh
Wondering what there is to see in Pittsburgh? We’ve put together an extensive list of must-visit attractions worth adding to…
Details
Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination
​Pittsburgh is especially family friendly thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages.
Details
Pittsburgh Loves Mister Rogers!
Mister Rogers entered our homes with his gentle, soft-spoken personality and his positive and affirming messages - and he won…
Details
Author
Justice S.
Marketing Content Creator
You can find Justice exploring Pittsburgh's local shops and cafes, or at events like Handmade Arcade. He is a performer, a professional binge-watcher, and a fashion enthusiast.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map