Must-See Pittsburgh Views | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Must-See Pittsburgh Views | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Must-See Pittsburgh Views
Due to the fact that Pittsburgh's setting straddles multiple river valleys, the hills surrounding the city enable you to get some excellent city views.
There are so many different angles to get excellent views and photos of the city. We've identified *just a few* that you need to check out.
Credit
|
Dave DiCello
Mt. Washington
Pittsburgh's most famous scenic vistas can be found upon
Mt. Washington
. This vantage point is known worldwide and it gives one of the most complete views of the downtown area. Additionally, it is home to the
Duquesne
and
Monongahela
Inclines, two of the best places to soak in views of the skyline. No matter how many times you go up Mt. Washington, you will be sure to see something different every time. Variations in the time of day, weather conditions, the city's events, and more contribute to the dynamic views that you see here. My wife and I had our first date here, and it consisted of riding up the Mon Incline, walking across Grandview Avenue, and going down the
Duquesne Incline
, all on a blustery February evening. The walk across the top is roughly a mile long, and beautiful views of the skyline are seen in nearly every spot.
Point State Park
Point State Park
is a place that has always served as a gateway and hub of activity for the city. It sits at the confluence of the city's three rivers, and offers broad views of the Golden Triangle. Throughout the grounds of the state park you can see the outlines of two forts that were erected at the Point during the French and Indian Wars. In 1754, the French built Fort Duquesne, and in 1758, after the British defeated the French, Fort Pitt was built by the British. Off to the right in this photo, you can see the
Fort Pitt Museum
and the
Fort Pitt Blockhouse
. Dating back to 1764, the Blockhouse is believed to be the oldest building in the city of Pittsburgh and west of the Alleghenies, though this is a debated topic. The history alone is worth a visit to the point, but the vistas of the city make this place that you must visit.
West End Overlook
View from the West End Overlook, located in the Elliott neighborhood of the city, the West End Overlook provides one of the most expansive views of the entire city skyline.
Similar to Mt. Washington, the West End Overlook provides an exceptional view of the city. The slight difference is that it is located farther down the river and actually is situated above the Ohio River, which is formed by the Allegheny and aforementioned Monongahela. You can get a great view of all three rivers from here and a straight on shot of the city from the view of Point State Park.
Cathedral of Learning
Cathedral of Learning and Oakland
Throughout Oakland, you are likely to be within feet of seeing the Cathedral of Learning.The University of Pittsburgh's Cathedral of Learning is the tallest building dedicated to university education in the western hemisphere. The Cathedral's first three floors have thirty different classrooms dedicated to some of the cultures that have contributed to the growth of the city and the University. The
Nationality Rooms
are open to tours and even hold classes at the University. The lobbyof this Late Gothic Revival building, known as the Commons Room, is three floors tall and offers tremendous views. It often hosts nationality festivals, college functions, and more. The 36th floor is the highest floor open to the public of any building in the city of Pittsburgh. Right near the building are the world-renowned institutions such as the
Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History
, the Oakland branch of the
Carnegie Librar
y,
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
,
Carnegie Mellon University
, and more.
The best way to see everything that Oakland has to offer is to simply take a walk through the neighborhood. On the Friday night of Pitt's homecoming weekend in the fall, they shoot fireworks off of each of the tiers of the building. If the Pitt football team wins, you will see the dazzling orange victory lights on top of the building.
Schenley Park
Oakland's Schenley Park
The jewel of Pittsburgh's park system,
Schenley Park
, is a paradise of its own. Schenley Park contributes to Pittsburgh's ranking as one of the most forested cities in the country. According to the US Forest Service, 42 percent of the city is covered in forest. Large hillsides that were once logged during the days of heavy industry, have since regenerated and create an urban oasis. Schenley Park is one such place to check out this beauty. Terrific views of the city are found at both Schenley Oval and Flagstaff Hill.
​View from the Trails
The City's Bicycling and Walking Trails
The
Three Rivers Heritage Trail
, Eliza Furnace Trail, and South Side Riverfront Trail, are Pittsburgh's main riverside bicycling and walking trails. These trails cover most of the riverfront areas in the city and provide endless opportunities for people looking to get great views of the city. These trails provide pedestrian and bicyclist access to many bridges that you would typically miss. The Hot Metal Bridge Pedestrian Walkway is part of the Three Rivers Heritage Trail and it provides a view of Downtown Pittsburgh from upstream on the Monongahela River.
Station Square
Station Square has a great view of the skyline, complete with an elevated viewing area. In fact, you'll often see our next vantage point from this point of view, as you can in the photo above.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Nick Koehler (@nkoehlerphotography)
Troy Hill
Several rumors exist as to why this was erected. One story says that the shrine was erected there after a deadly accident on the Parkway, which ended in this spot heading from downtown, prior to completion. Another story of its origin mentions a steelworker having a vision during a lunch break during a long shift at the old J&L Steel Plant. The family that erected the little parklet area does not mind you going into their backyard and checking it out. They have even set up some benches and a small altar at the site and excellent views of the city can be seen from this location.
View from Herrs Island
Herr's Island Overlook
Herr's Island is located on the Three Rivers Heritage Trail up the Allegheny River from North Side and Downtown. This is one of my favorite overall vantage points of the city. Seeing the reflections upon the water of the skyscrapers is nothing short of breathtaking.
View from the Southside Flats
With the character of the traditional Pittsburgh neighborhood of South Side in the foreground, the view of the city from this spot is one of the most representative of Pittsburgh life. This location straddles the border of the South Side Flats and the South Side Slopes. The best place to get this view is from the railroad pedestrian crossing bridge on South 15th Street, over the Norfolk Southern railroad line. This line was once a part of the illustrious Pennsylvania Railroad.
Old Pennsylvania Railroad Station (Current Amtrak Station)
Any angle looking towards this grand building is sure to be stunning. This once served as a booming station and office epicenter of the Pennsylvania Railroad (PRR). While Amtrak is down to four trains a day, it still uses a few of the old platforms from the old PRR station, even though it no longer uses the main station building.
View from the Train Station
The Smithfield Street Bridge
The Smithfield Street Bridge is the oldest river crossing in the city, with its opening dating back to 1883. It has been designated as both a Historic Civil Engineering Landmark and a National Historic Landmark. Great views of the city can be taken in from any place on, around, or underneath this ornate bridge.
View from the Smithfield St. Bridge
View from the Strip District
Strip District and Lower Lawrenceville
The Strip District offers a fantastic vantage point of the Pittsburgh skyline. This is also one of the most city's eclectic neighborhoods, filled with a multitude of specialty markets, shops, and eateries.
View down Smallman Street
Looking down Smallman Street, from in front of St. Stanislaus Church and at the end of the old Pennsylvania Railroad Produce Terminal. Sunrise and sunset are phenomenal in this location thanks to the shadows cast by the early and late light of the day.
Doughboy Square
Doughboy Square is located at the nexus of Butler Street and Penn Avenue. This monument is dedicated to the memory of those who served in World War I and it looks over the Strip District and Downtown. The doughboy has taken in this view since 20,000 people showed up to dedicate it back in 1921. It was the first WWI monument dedicated in Pittsburgh, and possibly in the entire nation. This monument is located in a little parklet that is impossible to miss.
View from the Allegheny River Walk
Allegheny River Walk and Allegheny Landing Park
This section provides the most direct view of downtown that North Side has to offer, with it right on the banks of the Allegheny River. On a breezeless night, you can get a mirror-like reflection of the city on the waters of the mighty Allegheny. You get an unparalleled perspective of fireworks displays from this location. On warm
summer
nights, you will often see boaters and pontoons tied to the shoreline in this location. Baseball game days are especially exciting in this area. This is the kind of place that you can just find a place to sit somewhere and take in the scenery.
View from Mr. Rogers Statue
North Shore - Mr. Rogers Monument
Heading down the Allegheny River to the start of the Ohio River, along the North Shore, will take you to a monument dedicated to one of my personal heroes, Mister Fred Rogers. This location delivers a majestic view of Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood.
Mr. Rogers Watching Over Pittsburgh
We follow the geese and ducks to our next stop. Locals generally think of parking and flooding whenever the Mon Wharf is mentioned, but alongside the river is a scenic walkway. Visible from this walkway is Station Square, an entertainment complex made up of the area of the old Pennsylvania and Lake Erie Railroad station
Hot Metal Bridge
The Hot Metal Bridge in the South Side of Pittsburgh offers a unique view of the city above the Monongahela River. With the newly renovated South Side Works Waterfront glowing in the foreground and the river bending as it makes its way into the city, the bridge is a perfect place to take in a sunset.
Duquesne Incline Station
The classic view of Pittsburgh from the Duquesne Incline Station is by far one of my favorite views of the city. With the red cars climbing up and down the hill, the fountain glowing at night, and the skyline stretching up both rivers, it really is a must-see view when in the city!
Grandview Park
A view that doesn't get as much attention as some of the others on this list, but is equally as beautiful, is the one from Grandview Park. Located on Bailey Avenue in Pittsburgh's Allentown neighborhood, this vantage point gives you a view of the city, CONSOL Energy Center, home of the Pittsburgh Penguins, and the South Side Flats. In the distance you can even see the Cathedral of Learning on Pitt's campus.
The Lower Hill District
The
Lower Hill District
, the area of the former Civic Arena, gives breathtaking views of the city skyline. When the old arena was planned, one of the concepts of the design was a retracting roof to enable spectacular views. When the roof was open, it provided a dramatic view of the Pittsburgh skyline, then dominated by the Gulf and Kopper's Buildings. When the arena first opened with its original tenant (the Pittsburgh Civic Light Orchestra) on Jul 4 1962, Carol Burnett put on one of the opening shows for the arena. She joked about the then-new facility, saying "It'll be a pretty nice place when they get the roof fixed." Future performers, including Leonard Bernstein, were harsher critics of having the roof open, and this novelty would eventually fall out of favor at the arena. While the arena is now long gone, the spectacular views of the skyline remain.
Downtown...All Over
Author
David W.
Blog Author
David Witoslawski is a Pennsylvania native who founded and runs the Interesting Pennsylvania and Beyond travel blog along with his wife Brittany. Follow their travels on their blog and Facebook page.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map