Pittsburgh PA Destination Services | Pittsburgh Meetings and Events | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh PA Destination Services | Pittsburgh Meetings and Events | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Meetings and Events
Event Services
Event Services
Let our event services team help make your next meeting unforgettable.
From the moment you select Pittsburgh until your last delegate departs, Pittsburgh's Business Events team stands ready to assist you with a variety of services including promotions, community awareness and public relations, Housing Reservation Services, volunteer recruitment,
venue recommendations
,
supplier recommendations
and various collateral requests.
In This Section
Housing Reservation Services
Learn More
Connecting Companies with Community
Learn More
Suppliers
Learn More
Marketing Toolkit
Learn More
Event Planning Services
Local Venues and Suppliers
Whether you're planning an event for 20 or 20,000, we'll help you find the
perfect venue
,
suppliers
and
transportation providers
to meet your every needs.
Housing Reservation Services
Pittsburgh's Business Events Team offers
group housing reservation services
for your multi-hotel event. We partner with Orchid.Events to provide you with a seamless booking experience for your attendees.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
If one of your objectives is to positively impact the society and/or environment surrounding your event, VisitPITTSBURGH can connect you with local organizations to help you reach your
Corporate Social Responsibility
goals.
WELCOME PITTSBURGH Information Center and Gift Shop
David L. Lawrence Convention Center
Attendees can explore their dining and sightseeing options at the WELCOME PITTSBURGH Information Center and Gift Shop at the
David L. Lawrence Convention Center
. From maps to restaurant menus and VisitPITTSBURGH’s latest See & Do Guide, the information center and gift shop has everything visitors need in a convenient location.
The storefront also offers a variety of Pittsburgh merchandise, including souvenirs like postcards, magnets and pens, as well as products from local attractions such as Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center, The Frick Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Glass Center and Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. WELCOME PITTSBURGH is your one-stop shop for information and that special something for family and friends back home!
For events not using the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, there is still an opportunity to utilize a staffed Pittsburgh Welcome Booth for attendees. This on-site service is available on a complimentary basis to events with 1,000 or more delegates. The Welcome Booth also can be available to groups with fewer than 1,000 attendees for a nominal fee.
Marketing Assistance
It's easy to show your delegates why they should attend your Pittsburgh event. We can provide you with a wide array of
promotional materials
to help market your event in Pittsburgh. From one pagers, web copy,
promotional videos
and a
social media toolkit
to teaser brochures and hard copy visitor guides, our marketing materials are a huge resource as you announce Pittsburgh as your next destination. Explore the
Marketing Toolkit
for all your needs!
Additional promotional tools including customized maps, a
photo library
and other
brochures
are available upon request.
Community Awareness & PR
Prior to your event, we prepare key members of our community such as public safety officials, transportation providers and restauranteurs for your group's arrival. Preparations may include a planning bulletin and/or pre-convention meeting.
Welcome signs will greet your attendees at the Pittsburgh International Airport and throughout the city. Upon request, we would be happy to obtain personalized welcome letters from Public Officials for your event program.
Should you require public relations assistance, we would be happy to call upon our Communications Department, who may be able to assist with press releases, news conference coordination and media kits. They can also provide editorial content about Pittsburgh for your website.
Submit RFP
Let us know when you are ready to book.
Learn More
Meet the Team
Contact our team to make planning your meeting or convention as easy as possible.
Learn More
Meet in Pittsburgh
Discover the many reasons to host your event in Pittsburgh.
Learn More
Hotels
Pittsburgh offers many options when it comes to hotels, resorts and accommodations.
Learn More
Meeting Spaces
Pittsburgh has plenty of opportunities to amaze your guests.​
Learn More
Business Events Blog
An insider’s look at how Pittsburgh fits into your future plans.
Learn More
Customer Success
Your successful event makes Pittsburgh shine even brighter.
Learn More
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map