Pittsburgh Irish Festival | Music, Drink & Dance #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh Irish Festival | Music, Drink & Dance #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh Irish Festival
Join the biggest Irish celebration of the year Sept. 6-8, 2024
For more than 30 years,
Pittsburgh Irish Festival
has celebrated the rich culture of Ireland and its unique ties to the Burgh through music, food and dance. You only need to be Irish at heart to join this Only in Pittsburgh celebration!
The Brigideens are back as one of the headlining acts for 2024
2024 Irish Festival
When & Where
Save the Date:
Sept. 6-8, 2024
Location:
Carrie Blast Furnaces
Tickets: Save money by buying tickets in
advance
. Tickets can also be purchased at the gate. Children 12 and under FREE. $60 weekend pass. $10 Happy Hour Admission from 4-6 p.m. Friday only. $10 admission Friday with college I.D. from 6-8 p.m.
Parking: On-site $10 in
advance
, $12 at the gate per vehicle.
Accessibility: Parking lot shuttle available. Sensory bags available at the front gate. Baby Care Tent available. Gluten free, vegan and vegetarian food options are available.
Pets: No pets, please
Lords (and Ladies) of the Dance
With six stages dedicated to performances, the
live music scene
is always one of the top highlights of Pittsburgh Irish Festival. Hear everything from traditional Celtic and folk bands using fiddles, flutes and pipes to contemporary Celtic rock, Irish dance and Celtic-American fusion.
Headlining the 2024 festival are Screaming Orphans, an energetic all-sister band from Ireland that has collaborated with Sinéad O’Connor and Joni Mitchell. Other headliners include fan-favorites Gaelic Storm as well as Ally the Piper, Eileen Ivers, The Brigideens, Bastard Bearded Irishmen and more. Additional entertainers, Irish comedians, harpists, roving bagpipers and more keep the music and laughs going in this entertainment-packed festival.
Ally the Piper
Shamrockin' Food & Drink
You'll be able to smell the mouthwatering Celtic cuisine cooking as soon as you step out of your car! Savor a giant menu of traditional Irish favorites including Irish sausage, Irish stew, boxty pancakes, corned beef and cabbage, Shepherd’s Pie, fish and chips, colcannon, ham and cabbage and more available from a wide variety of
vendors
.
For our 21+ guests, there's plenty to sip including Irish favorites like Guinness, Harp and Smithwick's on tap, specialty drinks and cocktails made with Dubliner Irish Whiskey, Jameson and other Irish liquors, specialty cocktails and non-alcoholic offerings.
My Irish stew in a bread bowl from last year. Heavenly!
Irish Events & Activities
When you're full, it's time to grab a fresh Guinness and explore the rest of the Pittsburgh Irish Festival. Watch the professionals and amateurs face off at the Five Farms Irish Cream Celtic Kitchen, shop 50+ vendors at the Irish marketplace, meet some good boys at the Irish dog area and learn the incredible history of the secret Hedge School.
New for 2024
is a high-comedy magic show full of flaming feats on Friday, a fiddle frenzy collaborative performance Saturday, a stone lifting competition for the brawniest among us on Sunday, plus a brand new exhibition highlight the legacies of Irish women all weekend long. No matter if you go to the Irish Festival every year or it's your first time, you're going to be busy.
And don't be afraid to bring the wee folk. Children 12 and under get free admission and will have lots to do! The Leprechaun's Landing area is designed just for them with Irish arts, crafts and games to play or watch them explore as they learn an Irish jig, bounce on an Irish castle and play a round of mini golf.
Related Blogs
Pittsburgh Fall Festivals 2024 Guide | Fairs, Events & More
Learn More
Irish Restaurants & Pubs in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh Fall Food And Drinks
Learn More
Pittsburgh Fall Date Ideas
Learn More
Pittsburgh Theatre | Upcoming Musicals, Plays, Comedy And Performances
Learn More
Autumn Hikes, Bikes, Runs & Fun!
Learn More
St. Patrick’s Day 2024 in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Related Content:
Save
Pittsburgh Irish Festival
1000 Sandcastle Dr.
West Homestead, Pennsylvania 15120
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Pittsburgh Irish Festival
Pittsburgh Irish Festival
1000 Sandcastle Dr.
West Homestead, Pennsylvania 15120
(412) 422-1113
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map