Guide to PNC Park Food & Concessions | Visit Pittsburgh

Guide to PNC Park Food & Concessions | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
What to Eat at PNC Park
​Spending the day watching baseball at PNC Park is a real treat.
Speaking of treats...eating at
PNC Park
is a
culinary adventure
! It's part of the whole
ballgame experience
.
Here are some suggestions that go beyond peanuts and cracker jacks, AND check out some of our favorite ballgame traditions
here
.
NEW FOR 2024
Hot Dogs & Wursts Galore 🌭
PNC Park has gone all in on the ballpark staple with three new upscale versions of this easy-to-eat snack all available at different locations. The
Renegade Hot Dog
(Section 133:
order it at the kiosks in Pop's Plaza with the Cannonball Burger and crab fries
) is going to be an instant Yinzer classic: this footlong is piled with pot roast, mini pierogi, pickles and onions for a fantastic taste of Pittsburgh's food passion contained in a single bite.
Other new additions here including the
Pitt Dog
(Section 135) that's topped with capicola, vinegar slaw and provolone cheese from the popular Deli Dogs stand, and an amazing looking
cheddar and chive brat
with classic toppings of peppers, onions and mustard.
Pictured
|
The Renegade Dog: Maybe the most perfect hot dog ever created?
Pictured
|
The Renegade Dog: Maybe the most perfect hot dog ever created?
More From Local Restaurants 🌽
It's corn! LowKey Taco (Section 138) continues to expand their menu offerings this year at their Nachorita stand, adding
roasted corn on the cob
(such a great addition to snack on as you watch the game),
birria beef nachos
and even some sweet
caramel churros
to make this stand a must-stop in 2024. Keep walking around the outfield to Section 144 and find Coop de Ville's all-new
chicken biscuit
! This is already my go-to stop in the stadium, but adding on a flaky biscuit and house pickles to their already incredible chicken is going to be even better.
Pictured
|
Turns out street corn is the optimal ballpark snack
Pictured
|
Turns out street corn is the optimal ballpark snack
Dessert Pierogi? Dessert Pierogi! 🍨 🥟
Yeah, you read that right. Cannonball Burger (Section 146) is adding a sweet version of this Pittsburgh staple, starting with sweet cheese stuffed dumplings and smothering them in chocolate sauce and powdered sugar. If it's a hit, expect sweet pierogi to start popping up all over the city!
PNC PARK FAVORITES
Manny's BBQ
Left Field
This newly remodeled barbecue stand is named after former Pirates catcher
Manny Sanguillen
, who has been known to hang around and sign autographs for fans. Eagle-eyed snack connoisseurs will note the new addition of the topped Mrs. T's mini pierogis you can get with either BBQ pork or chicken
On the menu
: house smoked BBQ pork and chicken, mac n cheese, topped mini pierogis, slaw
Chicken on the Hill & Cannonball Burger
Right Field
Two local Pittsburgh restaurants (
Coop De Ville
and
Station
) helped inspire the menus at these spots, and both are located right near seats and tables along the outfield wall to sit and enjoy your meal.
On the menu
: Nashville hot chicken sandwich, double ranch burgers, big mozz cheese sticks, plant burgers
Pop's Plaza
Section 132
Be sure to take advantage of all the new improvements in this section of the ballpark. The tech here allows you to get everything delicious here in one place, with kiosks to order from one central location and get your crab fries, ballpark burgers and more.
On the menu: Chickie's & Pete's Crabfries (get extra cheese, dipping these things gets addictive), burgers
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Chickie's & Pete's (@chickiesandpetes)
Primanti Bros.
Section 108
You can't go wrong with a
Primanti
's sandwich piled high with fresh deli meats and cheeses and topped off with French fries and cole slaw. A true Pittsburgh classic. Just around the corner from this booth is Wings & Things by Caliente, another regional favorite selling buckets of fresh wings and boneless wings.
First-timers read this
: The Pitts-Burger is the go-to order here, which will be a ground beef patty, coleslaw and fries all piled on freshly-baked white bread.
Fat Head's Bullpen Bar
Center Field
It's easy to find good beer throughout the park (North Country's Fireman's Red is my go-to during game day), but the Bullpen Bar specifically features the flavors brewed right here in the city including rotating favorites from Threadbare, Cinderlands, Aslin and other top-notch pours.
The Market
Section 118 (Home Plate)
Try something on the healthier side at this grab-and-go space. The quinoa salad is a filling and delicious alternative to hot dogs and loaded with peppers, tomatoes and a balsamic dressing.
On the menu: Grab-n-go salads, vegan bruschetta wrap
Deli Dogs & Nachoritas
Sections 135 and 137
For me, hot dogs are the quintessential ballpark food. Find the best in the park as you head to the bottom of the rotunda in left field and head towards center field.
On the menu
: chili, classic and Chicago-style dogs inspired by local
Smallman Street Deli
Sweet Spot
Behind Section 106
Treat yourself to a helmet cookie sundae, served just as it says with a fresh baked cookie on top of ice cream in a souvenir helmet sundae bowl. No Pittsburgh home is complete without a few of these on hand.
Caliente Pizza
Sections 113-114, 123, 313, 304
Already a fan favorite at other Pittsburgh stadiums,
Caliente Pizza & Draft House
is serving up giant slices of Sicilian, pepperoni and cheese pizza to fans at PNC Park. Find them throughout the ballpark at concessions sections in sections 113-114, 123, 313 and 304. Plus, they also now run the Wings & Things stand next to Primantis for your fix of giant buckets of mouthwatering wings.
Cinderlands Corner Bar
Bottom of the left field rotunda
Easily the best kept secret in the park right now, but one I'm happy to share. Head to the bottom of the left field rotunda, keep walking around to the back of the structure and grab the best beer in the park direct from Cinderlands.
Cans Available:
Raise It, Squish, Lil Cinder Lime, Full Squish
If these aren't enough for you, check out these
unique offerings at PNC Park
, or head to a ball game soon for great baseball and a smorgasbord of food choices! What is your favorite food to eat during a Pirates game?
Related Blogs
A Culinary Tour of PNC Park | A Food Map of the Ballpark
Learn More
My Top 10 Favorite Things to Do on Pirates Game Day
Learn More
Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh’s Hero!
Learn More
15 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
Learn More
10 Things to Do on Pittsburgh’s Three Rivers
Learn More
Eating Your Way Through Pittsburgh Sports
Learn More
Family Time in the North Shore & Northside Neighborhoods
Learn More
Instagram-Worthy Spots in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
Learn More
Pittsburgh Pirates
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Related Content:
Save
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
115 Federal St., PNC Park at the North Shore
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
115 Federal St., PNC Park at the North Shore
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212
(412) 323-5000
Details
Website
Save
Primanti Bros.
2100 Wharton St., Ste 720
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15203
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Primanti Bros.
Primanti Bros.
2100 Wharton St., Ste 720
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15203
(412) 325-2455
Details
Website
Save
Cinderlands Warehouse
2601 Smallman St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Cinderlands Warehouse
Cinderlands Warehouse
2601 Smallman St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 209-1575
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map