The Terrible Towel Legend - Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

The Terrible Towel Legend - Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Things to Do
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
History of the Terrible Towel
History of the Terrible Towel
Discover the history of The Terrible Towel of the Pittsburgh Steelers which began with Myron Cope and lives on today.
The History of the Luckiest Towel in Sports
The Terrible Towel was created by the late
Myron Cope
, the
Pittsburgh Steelers
broadcaster who needed a way to excite the team's fans during a 1975 playoff football game against the Baltimore Colts. Cope urged fans to take yellow dish towels to the game and wave them throughout. The stands were filled that day and the Steelers always seemed to complete terrific plays when the towels were waving. The Steelers won, 28-10. The team moved on in the playoffs and for Super Bowl X in January 1976, the Steelers introduced gold towels with the words "Myron Cope's Terrible Towel" printed in black. The Steelers went on to beat the Dallas Cowboys, 21-17, many claiming, "thanks to the Towel."
In 1996 Mr. Cope gave the rights to "Myron Cope's Official Terrible Towel" to the Allegheny Valley School in the Pittsburgh suburb of Coraopolis. The school provides care for more than 900 children, adults and senior citizens with mental retardation and physical disabilities. Proceeds from the Terrible Towel have helped raise almost $1.1 million for the school. On Jan. 15, 2005, during the Steelers playoff run at
Acrisure Stadium
,
VisitPittsburgh
sponsored the "World's Largest Terrible Towel Wave," reaching millions of Steelers fans around the world, known amongst themselves as "Steelers Nation." The team came back from what appeared to be a sure loss against the New York Jets, winning the game in overtime, 20-17. It appeared that the Towel had done it again.
The Steelers went on to host another home game the following week, Jan. 23, 2005, vs. the Patriots. Another massive Terrible Towel Wave was organized but this time the Steelers lost, 41-27. The victors that day went on to win Super Bowl XXXIX in Jacksonville. But the
Steelers
didn't give up on the Terrible Towel. On
Halloween
, Oct. 31, 2005, a special Terrible Towel was created to honor the retired Cope for his 35 years as a Steelers broadcaster and was waved prior to the Monday Night Football game between the Steelers and the Baltimore Ravens at Heinz Field (now named
Acrisure Stadium
). A limited edition of 35,000 were made, all with familiar "Cope-isms" like "Yoi!" By the way, that night, the Steelers won, 20-19.
For Super Bowl XL, played on Feb. 5, 2006 in Detroit, a special edition Terrible Towel was created for fans around Steelers Nation to help the team to victory. It worked! The Steelers beat the Seattle Seahawks, 21-10. Sadly, Myron passed away on Feb. 27, 2008 but his legend lives on. For Super Bowl XLIII, Feb. 1, 2009 in Tampa, another towel was produced to mark the occasion. The outcome? Steelers over Arizona, 27-23, to give them an unprecedented six Super Bowl Championships.
On Sunday, Jan. 23, 2011, the Steelers not only beat the New York Jets in the AFC Championship to advance to their third Super Bowl in six years, the game was played on what would have been Myron's 82nd birthday. Somehow that just seems so right. Those who knew and loved Myron, friends and fans alike, know he’s somewhere smiling and cheering, "Here We Go Steelers, Here We Go!"
The Terrible Towels will be out in force Christmas weekend 2022. The Immaculate Reception, the
greatest play in NFL history
, fittingly celebrates its (black and) golden 50th anniversary with festivities reuniting Steelers legends from that era during a rematch against the Raiders at Acisure Stadium on Dec. 24, 2022.
Authentic Experiences
College Sports
Catch a game at one of the many universities in Pittsburgh, including the University of…
Learn More
Sports Venues & Stadiums
Part of Pittsburgh's architecture is exemplified by its sports venues including PPG Paints Arena, Acrisure…
Learn More
Pittsburgh Steelers
Here We Go Steelers, Here We Go!
Learn More
Pittsburgh Sports
In Pittsburgh, we bleed black and gold.
Learn More
Related Blog Posts
Ultimate Steelers Gameweek Guide
Steelers Nation! In Pittsburgh for the big game? We've got the scoop on how to enjoy the ultimate sports city!
Details
A Guide to Acrisure Stadium for Steelers Fans
In town for a big game? We've got the scoop on how to enjoy a Steelers game in the ultimate…
Details
Game Day Bars in Pittsburgh
One of the best sports cities in the nation has some great sports bars to go along with their teams!
Details
Pittsburgh Celebrates Girls and Women in Sports
As a city nicknamed “The City of Champions” we recognize all athletes that make up our city, including female sports…
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map