Culinary Tour of PNC Park & Food Map - Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Culinary Tour of PNC Park & Food Map - Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
A Culinary Tour of PNC Park | A Food Map of the Ballpark
Your guide to finding Pittsburgh flavors, local craft beer and ballpark staples
Now Updated for 2024
With iconic views, fireworks nights and Buccos baseball,
PNC Park
is consistently named one of the best ballparks in America for a reason.
What follows is two yinzers’ quest to eat their way around PNC Park and recap their favorite finds and flavors. Looking for a comprehensive guide to everything in the park? Check out
this blog
.
Dessert Pierogi and Chicken Biscuit locations
Riverwalk Area (Outfield)
Our journey begins at the Riverwalk, once a more closed off region of the park and expanded in 2022 into a vibrant collection of new concession areas, seating right along the outfield, selfie spots, kids areas and gigantic
Pirates
bobbleheads of all-time greats.
This revitalization also led to the park infusing this area with authentic Pittsburgh cuisine, partnering with local restaurants to develop next-level ballpark food with Only In Pittsburgh inspiration.
Chicken on the Hill
(section 144/145) features a menu inspired by Coop de Ville in the
Strip District
, and
Cannonball Burger
(section 145/145) features Station in Bloomfield’s creations, transforming this stretch into one of PNC Park’s best food spots.
Jared:
The chicken biscuit is messy but so worth it. Grab some extra napkins for this bad boy. The biscuit is buttery and flaky, the house pickle adds the acidity this needs and the breaded chicken itself is perfectly fried with just a hint of heat. This is top tier ballpark eating.
Courtney:
The dessert pierogi from Cannonball Burger are unlike anything else in the park! These pillowy pockets have a great sweet cheese filling that keep you going back for bite-after-bite without being overly sweet. This is such a fun treat to snack on chillier days in the park when you're not feeling ice cream.
Bonus Tip:
Don’t go back to your seats yet. Enjoy your meal at one of the seats right against the outfield railing for an amazing view of the game while you chow down.
Circle the outfield to find all of the new food options for 2024
New Food Roundup (Throughout PNC Park)
Looking to try everything new in the park this summer? Me too! Here's a quick recap on where to find everything new this season:
Renegade Hot Dog (Section 133 in Pop's Plaza)
Pitt Dog and Cheddar and Chive Brat (135 at Deli Dogs)
Roasted corn on the cob, birria beef nachos and caramel churros (137 at LowKey Taco)
Chicken Biscuit (144 at Coop de Ville)
Dessert Pierogi (144 at Cannonball Burger)
Jared:
My expectations were sky-high after this went viral before the season, and it is absolutely worth the buzz. The pierogis make this visually stunning (it's absolutely a requirement to take photos of every angle before eating) but my favorite elements of this came from the combo of the briny pickles and savory shredded beef and onions. You get some crunch, some snap, some well-developed slow-cooked goodness and a big mouthful of potatoes in each bite - welcome to the pinnacle of ballpark dining.
Pictured
|
The Renegade Dog: Maybe the most perfect hot dog ever created?
Pictured
|
The Renegade Dog: Maybe the most perfect hot dog ever created?
Two Must-Stops: Deli Dogs and Nachoritas in left
Deli Dogs and Nachoritas (Left Field)
Making our way into left field, two of the newer food options immediately made us stop and load up before we got to our seats.
Deli Dogs
(section 135) features upscale takes on the classic ballpark hot dog, with high-quality dogs and buns served Chicago, chili and other styles.
Nachoritas
(section 137) again elevates the simple nachos and cheese we love and adding queso, crema and now even birria to elevate the experience.
Jared:
Who knew eating corn at the ballpark would be this good? The elote from Nachoritas might seriously be my favorite food in the ballpark now. The crisp snap of the corn combined with the cotija cheese with a nice kick from the crema, and that's the best bite anywhere.
Courtney:
Ok, this Pitt Dog from Deli Dogs is straight 🔥. I'm loving the heat from the cap and the crunch from the coleslaw and fried onions. Perfection.
Pictured
|
Turns out street corn is the optimal ballpark snack
Pictured
|
Turns out street corn is the optimal ballpark snack
Fathead's and Cinderlands are the spots to find local drafts
Local Beer (Center Field and Left Field Rotunda)
Watching pitchers warm up is always fun at PNC Park, but there was never anywhere to sit. Enter the
Bullpen Tap Bar
, which offers eight of local brewer Fat Head's signature beers on tap along with a rotating selection of other breweries such as North County, Cinderlands Beer Co and even Threadbare Cider. Seats are available on the railing overlooking the bullpen, making this a perfect way to pass a few later innings.
Walk-Thru Bru locations throughout the park let you pick a can (Cinderlands and Iron City were available in every cooler I saw) but the true gem is right under the left field rotunda near Section 133, where Cinderlands is set up with drafts and cans you won't find anywhere else in the park.
Courtney:
I think it’s awesome that the Pirates are doing their part to promote local breweries, and Fat Head’s has plenty of awesome selections. My favorite is this Lime Feein’ Good Mexican-Style lager.
Jared:
The Cinderlands Corner Bar is my hidden gem of the entire park. It's the perfect mix of IPAs and other lighter beers that pair perfect with ballgame weather, and there's almost never a line.
Brain freeze here
Something Sweet
For those of us with a sweet tooth, the cookie sundae is the best dessert option in the park. You can find it at the
Sweet Spot
(section 106) or
The Cookie & Creamery
(section 119) in the infield concourse. Every ice cream/cookie combination goes great with each other, especially during a hot afternoon game, and comes served in a Pirates batting helmet.
Healthy Options
Error. This is not that type of article.
Seriously though, there’s some fresh, innovative salads at the Market behind home plate, but the only vegetables we touched were the celery than came with the wings.
Primanti's and Manny's locations
Don't Forget the Classics
We were stuffed after our culinary tour, but it’s still worth mentioning a few other spots for great grub in the park. Grab some Only In Pittsburgh
Primanti Bros.
sandwiches, piled high with coleslaw and french fries, located behind section 108.
My personal PNC Park tradition is to always make sure I stop by
Manny’s
(also sporting a newly-designed space) in left field, where you can often find Pirates great Manny Sanguillén seated near the end of the line, who is happy to chat with fans and relive some of his greatest moments.
Related Blogs
Food at the Confluence
Learn More
Pittsburgh’s Outdoor Dining Scene
Learn More
Insider’s Guide to Pittsburgh Greek Food Festivals
Learn More
What to Eat at PNC Park
Learn More
Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh’s Hero!
Learn More
Eating Your Way Through Pittsburgh Sports
Learn More
My Top 10 Favorite Things to Do on Pirates Game Day
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Related Content:
Save
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
115 Federal St., PNC Park at the North Shore
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
Pittsburgh Pirates at PNC Park
115 Federal St., PNC Park at the North Shore
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212
(412) 323-5000
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map