Insider's Guide to the Strip District | Where to Eat, Drink and Shop in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Insider's Guide to the Strip District | Where to Eat, Drink and Shop in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
The Strip District: A Local Pittsburgh Favorite
If you're looking for a taste of authentic Pittsburgh, look no further than Pittsburgh's Strip District.
The one-half square mile shopping district bordering Downtown is a foodie heaven bursting with local flavor. "The Strip," as locals call it, is filled with ethnic grocers, boutique shops, produce merchants, and internationally acclaimed restaurants. Whether you're a local or just in for a visit, be sure to check out these can't-miss places in the Strip!
What's New
Puttshack
Take mini golf to the next level with this indoor, tech-infused attraction with innovative scorekeeping across four courses that reinvents what mini golf can be. This location allows kids before 8 p.m. opening up the fun for families before transforming into a happening date night spot at night.
City Winery Pittsburgh
City Winery, the culinary and cultural experience for urban wine enthusiasts and live entertainment venue, opens in Pittsburgh this June. City Winery Pittsburgh will offer signature
intimate concerts and live performances
, food and wine experiences, private event spaces, upscale dining options and a fully functioning winery.
Credit
|
Skylar Watkins courtesy of City Winery Pittsburgh
Sandbox VR
Level up your next night out at
Sandbox VR
. Their full-body virtual reality experiences and take socially immersive gaming to new heights, and are perfect for groups of up to six. Go on a Star Trek mission among the stars, fight off the undead with Deadwood Valley and Mansion or try their newest high fantasy experience, Seekes of the Shard: Dragonfire.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Sandbox VR (@sandboxvr)
Eat
Primanti Bros.
A trip to Pittsburgh isn't complete without a Primanti Brothers signature sandwich! Topped with coleslaw and French fries, foodies can get a taste of Pittsburgh in a sandwich. Located on 18th Street, this is the original Primati Bros. that's been in business since 1933. It's even open until 2 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays for the late-night and post-party crowd.
Deluca’s
Located in the heart of the Strip District, Deluca’s Diner is a must-see stop. A hit diner since 1950, it can be described as, “good mood food.” Enjoy both breakfast and lunch at any time, any day. You won’t regret your trip here!
The Enrico Biscotti Company
Serving traditional Italian pastries, the Enrico Biscotti Company is one of Pittsburgh's finest hidden gems. Enrico's is made up of two parts: the café, serving up breakfast and lunch, and the bakery, which offers delicious biscotti, macaroons and more.
Bread and pizza-making classes
are also available.
DiAnoia’s Eatery
Looking for an authentic Italian food experience? With homemade pastas, to authentic Italian dishes and almost everything in between, enjoy a unique experience at the café by day, full ristorante by night at DiAnoia’s Eatery!
P&G's Pamela's Diner
Since 1980, Pamela's Diner has been serving up some of the tastiest breakfast in the 'Burgh. The Diner's world-famous Crepe Style Pancakes are a must try and a favorite of President Obama when he is in town.
Drink
The Tavern
After their closure in 2020 during the pandemic, The Tavern has been reimagined and is now back and better than ever. Enjoy the one-of-a-kind brews with unique food and appetizers that reflect the struggles of those before us.
The Beerhive
Looking for a place for beer? The Beerhive has you covered! With 100+ bottled beers plus bomber bottles, growlers and 12 rotating taps, The Beerhive is sure to please. The family-run bar also offers some mouth-watering food ranging from burgers and wings to tacos.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by The BeerHive (@thebeerhivepgh)
Mullaney’s Harp and Fiddle
Stop by and enjoy the atmosphere of a classic Irish pub at Mullaney’s Harp and Fiddle. Accompanied by live music and traditional Irish cuisine, immerse yourself in on the tap beers, wines, cocktails and more. Be prepared for a fun night at one of the best bars in the Strip District.
La Prima Espresso Company
Located at the corner of Penn Ave. and 21st Street, La Prima Espresso is the most authentic Italian style espresso bar in the city. Stop by the bar to pick up a drink or pastry and you'll feel like you're in Italy. And if one cup of coffee isn't enough, you can buy a fresh roasted bag of La Prima to go.
Shop
Mon Aimee Chocolat
For those with a sweet tooth, Mon Aimee Chocolat is a must! The store is filled with imported chocolate bars and candies from around the world. The chocolatier also sells local sweets including LUX Artisan Chocolates, Salted Caramels and Capogiro Gelato Artisans, award-winning Pennsylvania gelato.
Hot Haute Hot
This cute and hip store has everything you didn't know you wanted! Decorated with the handpicked pieces from all over the world and filled with the trendiest styles, Hot Haute Hot looks to "feed the soul" of its customers.
Yinzers
(in the Burgh)
If you're a true Pittsburgh sports fan, or just want a Terrible Towel souvenir, you've got to stop at Yinzers! Claimed to be Pittsburgh's #1 Sports Store, Yinzers has anything and everything Pittsburgh sports.
Hidden Gems
If you're still with us, consider this section your reward. I've been going to the Strip District for years and have a personal list of "musts" every time I'm there. Be sure to look for these easily missed must-haves you'll be craving each time you're in the Strip.
Atomic Pepperoni Rolls
Originally designed to be a filling, easy-to-transport lunch for coal miners in our region, these stuffed bread rolls have been perfected at
Jimmy & Nino Sunseri Co.
Their legendary (and massive) pepperoni rolls are stuffed with pepperoni, mozzarella and provolone. If you can handle the heat, go for the atomic version which also adds in sweet and hot peppers, prosciutto bits and mushrooms for maybe the best individual bite in the Strip.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Jimmy and Nino Sunseris (@jimmyandnino_sunseris)
The Freshest Sushi
If you see a line running outside the door at Wholey's, get in it. That's the queue for Andy's Sushi Bar, serving up some of the freshest sashimi, nigiri and maki in the Burgh for more than 25 years. Snag the Wholey and Andy's Special rolls and you'll know in one bite what makes this place so special.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Sammie Eats (@sammie_eatz)
Street Food Worth a Stop
Still hungry? Me too. As you walk by Bar Marco, seek out
Lucy's Bánh Mì
. No, there's no restaurant (or even a sign), just Lucy, her grill and some condiments under a small tent as she serves up some of the best sandwiches in the Burgh. Bring cash; this is the best $8 you're going to spend in the city.
Related Blogs
Insider’s Guide to Bloomfield
Learn More
Homewood: A Neighborhood Guide
Learn More
Cooking Up New Skills in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh With a Mix of Culture & Flavor
Learn More
Must-Try Pittsburgh Taco Spots
Learn More
Author
Asaka N.
Related Content:
Save
DiAnoia's Eatery
2549 Penn Ave
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
DiAnoia’s Eatery
DiAnoia's Eatery
2549 Penn Ave
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 918-1875
Details
Website
Save
Pamela's P&G Diners
60 21st St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Pamela’s P&G Diners
Pamela's P&G Diners
60 21st St.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 281-6366
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map