Insider's Guide to Kennywood | What's New for 2024 | Visit Pittsburgh

Insider's Guide to Kennywood | What's New for 2024 | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Insider's Guide: Kennywood
Experience everything new and beloved at Kennywood, a USA Today 10Best Theme Park celebrating 126 seasons of fun
Combining modern thrills and classic rides, complete your
summer
with a trip to
Kennywood
! Gather your friends and family for unforgettable fun.
Whether you're visiting for the first time or a lifelong fan of the park, follow our guide to what's new, special events and more. For even more foodie fun, check out our other blog on
where to eat at Kennywood
.
New in 2024
2024 is going to be a fantastic year at Kennywood! In fact, there's so much new to see and do we had to give this part of the blog its own section.
Potato Smash, Crash and Dash
The bumper cars are a classic attraction at most theme parks, but this year this ride was given a truly Kennywood twist as brand new cars modeled after the park's iconic Potato Patch Fries take over. The Potato Smash (the new name picked by fans) is emblazoned with all new artwork on the ride walls, a brand new sign and bumper cars oozing with cheese fries and complete with a gigantic fork.
Penn Brewery + Kennywood Join Forces
Jeeters' Pub resurrects the popular pink mascot to theme this all-new pub in the middle of the park, partnered with
Penn Brewery
, Pittsburgh's oldest craft brewery. Historic park moments and beautiful artwork cover the walls inside as Penn Brewery serves up drafts (look for exclusive collabs like a strawberry funnel cake shandy coming this summer) plus new food options like a charcuterie board and wings.
Heavenly Shakes & Mouthwatering Burgs
The iconic food stand atop the park has a makeover this year as well and is now know as the Carousel Burger Co. The grilled chicken sandwiches and burgers here are the perfect way to refuel in the middle of the day, but the real standout are the towering milkshakes topped with donuts, pop tars and more in a sugary explosion of deliciousness.
More Pittsburgh than Ever
With black and gold colors, Steelers-themed rides and more, Kennywood is already as Pittsburgh as it gets. They're celebrating that heritage with the all new Celebrate Pittsburgh event happening each weekend in July 2024 by showcasing what makes Pittsburgh special, ending with a high-energy dance party. Look for a first-ever Kennywood drone show capping off this event July 20.
Upgrades Everywhere You Look
I can't stress enough just how beautiful Kennywood looks in 2024. Seemingly every area of the park has been upgraded, modernized and beautified in some way. But here's what I'm most excited about:
The Turtle ride (the last of its kind in the world) is gleaming with a new restoration
The Aero 360 is refreshed and back in business
The Thunderbolt has a beautiful re-done sign that pops for pictures
The fan-favorite Exterminator ride is bringing back the full pre-ride video to play as you wait
Look for a new gift shop and Carousel Candy coming to Lost Kennywood soon
Even Kiddieland is being upgraded with a new look for the miniature ferris wheel
See everything new for 2024
2024 Special Events
This year, Kennywood is excited for an exciting lineup of events. With a mix of
new and returning events
, the park features eight months of unique entertainment.
Opening Weekend | April 20-21
Bites and Pints Festival | May 24-June 30 (Fridays, Saturdays & Sundays):
Taste international cuisine paired with specialty cocktails, craft beer and wine during this returning, fan-favorite festival.
Celebrate America |
July 4-5:
Celebrate America explodes onto the scene with fireworks (July 4 only), the Weiner 100 dachshund races and more patriotic performances.
Celebrate Pittsburgh | July 6-28 (Saturdays & Sundays):
The city of Pittsburgh will take center stage every weekend in July with a focus on culture, sports and beer from the city of Champions plus a high-energy dance party each night.
Fall Fantasy Parades | Aug. 3-18:
The annual Fall Fantasy Parades march back into Kennywood, with more than 130 local and regional high school and college bands performing accompanied by decorated floats.
Phantom Fall Fest | Sept. 20-Oct. 27 (Select dates Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays & Sundays):
Phantom Fall Fest returns with festive family fun during the day and frights all night long.
Kennywood Holiday Lights | Nov. 15-Jan. 1, 2025 (Select Dates):
Experience the magic of
Holiday Lights
as more than two million lights sparkle and shine throughout the park plus enjoy festive entertainment, food and drinks and Pennsylvania's tallest Christmas Tree during this holiday outing.
First Time Visitors Read This
As I read over this blog, I felt like maybe first-timers would need a little more of an intro to this beloved park, so I made this section specifically for you. Kennywood is Pittsburgh's theme park, with classic rides and a decidedly quirky atmosphere that makes it unlike anywhere else I've ever visited.
The rides are absolutely incredible. The Phantom's Revenge is arguably the greatest coaster on the planet and nothing beats the thrill of popping out of your seat on the dips of the Jackrabbit. There's the last Turtle ride in the world and an interactive Noah's Ark walkthrough experience that delight young and old alike.
But it's also the little things, like taking photos with the Cowboy Joe statue on a park bench or delighting in the kitsch of the pre-ride news broadcast on the Exterminator that makes everyone fall in love with this park over and over again.
There's no right way to do Kennywood and every blogger and influencer is going to have their own great recommendations. But my advice is to slow down and take it all in. Grab a corn dog, look for Laughin' Sal in the arcade, compete against your friends on the Racer, and find the reasons why you love Kennywood just like we do!
Season Passholders
Secure endless summer fun with a
Season Pass
! Multiple pass holder options are available, including a Gold Pass good for unlimited visits to Kennywood all year (including special events) and the Platinum Pass which allows entry to all three sister parks (Kennywood,
Sandcastle
and
Idlewild
) all year, plus additional discounts and incentives.
Plan Your Visit
Kennywood is open on April 20 for the start of the 2024 season. Visit
kennywood.com
for varying park hours and to purchase tickets online and view the full
events
calendar.
Insider’s Tips
Avoid Measurements with Height Check
Have your kids grown since last summer? Be sure to stop by one of Kennywood’s Service Centers for a height check! Located near Noah’s Ark and at the Front Gate, kids are measured and provided a color-coded wristband with their “official” height. When entering a ride, show the operator your kid’s wristband to avoid measurements for every ride.
Indulge in Iconic Potato Patch Fries
A trip to Kennywood isn’t complete without a stop at The Potato Patch! The “Patch” serves homemade fries with fresh cut Idaho potatoes. Top off your fries with melted cheddar cheese, bacon, vinegar, gravy, or seasoning salts. Eat like a local with Potato Patch Fries –
food you can get Only in Pittsburgh
!
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Kennywood (@kennywoodpark)
Ride One of the Best Coasters on the Planet
Despite record-breaking coasters popping up across the world, the
Phantom's Revenge
continues to be ranked one of the top roller coasters year after year. You'll travel 85 mph through an incredible 232-ft drop as you crisscross the Thunderbolt and pass right over main areas of the park for this truly unbelievable ride! It's worth the wait for the front seat views, but the back seat provides the wildest ride.
Rain Check
Many visitors will avoid a day calling for rain, which means these days tend to be less busy. Many of the rides still run if the weather isn't too bad. If the weather takes a turn for the worse causing the park to close early, rain checks are issued for guests that present their ticket stubs. This means you can get some riding in when it isn't busy, and come back another day if the park does close!
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
Kennywood's
website
is the biggest tool in planning your visit. Preview the rides, food options, special events and more before heading to the park. Taking some research of your own along with these tips will ensure a great next visit to Kennywood!
Related Blogs
What to Eat at Kennywood
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Gateway Clipper Fleet
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: National Aviary
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Sandcastle Waterpark
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Duquesne Incline
Learn More
Insider’s Guide: Senator John Heinz History Center
Learn More
15 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Related Content:
Save
Kennywood
4800 Kennywood Blvd.
West Mifflin, Pennsylvania 15122
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Kennywood
Kennywood
4800 Kennywood Blvd.
West Mifflin, Pennsylvania 15122
(412) 461-0500
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map