A Celebration of Diversity in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

A Celebration of Diversity in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Diverse Pittsburgh
A Celebration of Diversity in Pittsburgh
Discover how Pittsburgh’s diversity and 90 vibrant neighborhoods make our region a major travel destination.
Embrace Pittsburgh’s diversity on your next visit!
Pittsburgh is historically known as a melting pot of cultures and lifestyles. Settled by hard-working immigrants, our vibrant neighborhoods are alive with unique voices. We invite you to explore everything that makes Pittsburgh so special - rich cultural experiences, historic buildings and sites, locally owned small businesses, specialty shops, delicious culinary offerings and much more.
Pittsburgh Celebrates Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
May is Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month (AAPI), chosen to commemorate both the completion of the First Transcontinental Railroad (built largely on Chinese labor) and the first Japanese immigrant arriving in the U.S., which occurred during that month.
Read More
Pittsburgh With a Mix of Culture & Flavor
For visitors looking to immerse themselves in Pittsburgh’s Black travel experience, here are just a few of the many sites that the city has to offer.
Read More
Latin-Owned Businesses in Pittsburgh
Looking to support and connect with Latin-owned businesses in Pittsburgh? Browse this list of Latin-owned restaurants, spas, salons, apparel, stores, arts and community organizations!
Read More
Make it a Weekend: Pittsburgh Black-Owned Itinerary
Support Black-owned Businesses, Explore Historic Neighborhoods and Celebrate Black Art
Start Planning
Pictured
|
Homewood Experience
Credit
|
Eric Blackwell
Pittsburgh Women in Sports
We’re celebrating four Black women in sports from Pittsburgh who have made history, set records and continue to contribute to the world of athletics.
Pittsburgh Celebrates Black History
For more than 200 years, Southwestern Pennsylvania has been impacted by the achievements and influence of the Black community.
Discover something new
Black History & Historic Sites
100 sites of local, regional and national significance are represented in this guide of
Black history
in the region.
Plan Your Visit
Sites of the Underground Railroad
The Underground Railroad was undoubtedly one of the most significant forms of activism in our nation's history.
Learn More
Exciting Events & Festivals
There’s no better way to experience Pittsburgh’s diverse communities than at one of our region’s engaging events. Immerse yourself in culture, entertainment, kinship, food and more at one of these memorable happenings.
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Embraces Juneteenth – the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States.
Get the Details
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Music Lovers get ready for the 2022 Pittsburgh Black Music Festival on July 14-17 at Point State Park and Market Square in Downtown Pittsburgh.
Get the Details
Pittsburgh Pride Revolution
Pittsburgh Pride Revolution is a full four-day festival that you don't want to miss! Celebrate with Pride!
Read More
Pittsburgh’s Barrel & Flow Fest
Celebrate Black artists, craft brews and the arts at the award-winning Barrel & Flow Fest
Start Sipping
Reel Q, Pittsburgh’s LGBTQ+ Film Festival
Learn more about Reel Q and the organization bringing LGBTQ+ films and events to Pittsburgh since 1985.
Start Screening
Pittsburgh International Jazz Festival
Enjoy a three-day celebration of the best in jazz music with world renowned and Pittsburgh musicians!
Pittsburgh International Jazz Festival
Pittsburgh Anthrocon
One of the largest anthropomorphics (human-like animal characters) conventions in the world, thousands of attendees travel to Pittsburgh for this unique celebration that makes
Downtown
the most exciting place to be in the city.
Learn More
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
Built by a rich history, Pittsburgh's cultural offerings and welcoming people make our vibrant city a must-see destination.
Learn More
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
​Get out and explore all that Pittsburgh has to offer!
Learn More
Related Blog Posts
Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh’s Hero!
Learn More
My Journey: Brazil to Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh Latino Arts Community
Learn More
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map