#LovePGH Blog | Best Brunch in the 'Burgh | Visit Pittsburgh

#LovePGH Blog | Best Brunch in the 'Burgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Best Brunch in the 'Burgh
It's a known fact: Pittsburgh does brunch well. Here are a few suggestions to get you started in the right direction.
Weekends in Pittsburgh are generally a laid-back affair, filled with sports and food. However, brunch is almost a celebrated holiday in Pittsburgh and you have a serious selection to choose from. Whether you and your friends enjoy themed menus, boozy concoctions, or classic eggs and bacon, Pittsburgh has a brunch spot for you. Here are a few brunch options for a special celebration, or to celebrate making it though the weekend.
Photo Credit: Paris 66 Facebook Page
If You Wish You Were in Paris
If you want an authentic French brunch experience complete with champagne, macarons, and croissants, then take your gang straight to
Paris 66
in East Liberty. The menu offers a complete range of breakfast food and even has Gaby et Jules famous French pastries. The quaint interior along with the delicious food will make you forget that you are on this side of the pond.
If You Love Bloody Mary's
Bloody Mary's are an important part of Sunday Brunch and
Luke Wholey's
doesn't mess around. You can choose from a list of a la carte toppings to add to your drink including a whole soft shell crab. Pittsburghers know that you can always trust Wholey's to have the best seafood in town. There's nothing better to go along with your Bloody Mary than a fresh lobster roll.
If You Like Historical Buildings
The Speckled Egg
is an all-day brunch spot located on the first floor of the Union Trust Building. Their menu options include omelets, toasts, sandwiches and salads – just to name a few. Not only do they offer delicious breakfast and lunch options, but they have a full cocktail menu available any time of the day!
@iconsofpittsburgh
If You Love Seafood
Did someone say Oyster Bar? Yes, please!
Muddy Waters Oyster Bar
in East Liberty offers fresh shellfish and delicious Cajun food. Their menu boasts Po Boys', gumbo, alligator bits, French Quarter beignets and more! Plus, I've heard bourbon, beer and Champaign flow like the three rivers here.
If You Have a Sweet Tooth
Bartram House Bakery
is not your typical bakery. The cozy little spot has a full-service breakfast menu, too. Bartram House has something for everyone whether you're in the mood for homemade sweets like pastries and cakes, or a classic eggs benedict with home fries.
If You're Crazy for Crepes
If you can't get enough of breakfast fixings, then grab some crepes at
Caffe Mona La Bistro
. There are so many options to pile on your crepe that it makes it hard to decide whether to go sweet or savory. And if you really can't choose, then there's a three-course brunch special.
Photo Credit: The Grand Concourse Facebook Page
If You Love the Classics
The
Grand Concourse
Sunday brunch is a Pittsburgh classic. The old train concourse has an extraordinary interior that makes this one of the fanciest brunches in town. The classic buffet-style brunch has options ranging from classic breakfast foods, prime rib and seafood, to homemade donuts and pastries. If dining in style is your group's thing, then make sure to make your reservation ahead of time.
Author
Olivia A.
Guest Blogger
Olivia is a Pittsburgh native with a passion for digital marketing and content creation. Her favorite hobbies include discovering the best food, events, and things to do in Pittsburgh. Follow Olivia on Instagram at @livpgh.
Related Content:
Save
Grand Concourse/Gandy Dancer Saloon
100 W. Station Square Dr.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Grand Concourse/​Gandy Dancer Saloon
Grand Concourse/Gandy Dancer Saloon
100 W. Station Square Dr.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
(412) 261-1717
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map