Time for Self-Care | Best Spas in Pittsburgh #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh

Time for Self-Care | Best Spas in Pittsburgh #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh Pampering: Spas and Relaxation Experiences for Everyone
Everyone deserves to indulge in self care, and lucky for you, we've got a great list of local spas that will make you feel brand new.
After a week of work, or a stretch of grueling travel, we all need to recharge with some much-needed relaxation and self-care. Fortunately, Pittsburgh has a variety of spas and pampering experiences to assist everyone with finding their ideal spot to unwind.
The Health Club & Spa at Fairmont Pittsburgh
Located in the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh, join the post-work crowd for a mani-pedi or a relaxing steam in the Eucalyptus room designed to open breathing passages and relieve congestion. The Muscle Melt Massage features the use of rosemary, black pepper and ginger to relax tension. Select from a traditional list of spa services that’ll surely offer the highest levels of relaxation!
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Fairmont Pittsburgh (@fairmontpittsburgh)
Spa Jema
Billed as a “hip, chic, modern retreat,” this spa in Downtown Pittsburgh might just be the perfect place to unwind from your workday. Try their Chai Spice Body Scrub treatment or step into their cedar lined private sauna for a cleansing sweat. Add CBD oil, aromatherapy or cupping to any of their services.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Spa Jema (@spajema)
Sugar Spa and Beauty Bar
Nestled in the North Hills, Sugar Spa and Beauty Bar is a beautiful retreat for your relaxation needs. Offering a wide array of services, the experienced staff will assist you with feeling your best. Enjoy relaxation services like massage and facials, or refresh your look with nail care, waxing and hair removal or eyelash extensions.
Evolve Wellness Spa
The Evolve Wellness Spa is located in the Shadyside neighborhood. You’ll feel an immediate sense of calm as soon as you step into the lobby. Dark wood accents and smooth river stones enhance the space, leaving no doubt that you’re about to have your worries carried away. This traditional day spa boosts all the classic spa services, as well as some holistic services like Self-Improvement Counseling.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Evolve Wellness Spa | Shadyside (@evolvewellnessspa)
LEVITY Float Therapy Studio
Located in Squirrel Hill, LEVITY is a different kind of relaxation experience. Only specializing in sensory deprivation tanks, you’ll find serenity and weightlessness waiting for you here. Clients start the experience by showering under a cascading rain showerhead, before climbing into a sensory deprivation pod that holds less than a foot of water, but hundreds of pounds of dissolved Epsom salt for buoyancy. Once the pod lid is closed, floaters experience a feeling of bliss as all of their muscles relax in the supporting water.
Pro tip: Give it a few days after your last shave/wax before you enjoy this treatment; the salt water may sting.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by L E V I T Y (@levity412)
esSpa Kozmetika Organic Day Spa and Skincare Salon
Founded by Hungarian immigrant Eva Sztupka, esSpa Kozmetika Organic Day Spa and Skincare Salon in Aspinwall is one of the best places in the city for a facial. Using only organic products in any of their services, be sure to stop in the shop on the way out to take some of the magic home with you. Spas are usually adult only spaces, but esSpa Kozmetika Organic Day Spa and Skincare Salon embraces kids with a selection of children tailored services.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by ESSpa Organic Skincare & Salon (@esspasalon)
Awareness & Wellness Center (AWC) Sound Healing
Use the amazing power of sound vibration to help your body relax and heal with an AWC Sound Healing session at their Shadyside location. Your luxurious sound bath is led by classical violinist and CMU music professor Monique Mead as she takes you on a blissful journey via violin, singing bowls and other healing instruments. The best part? You don't need to do anything; so just lay back, relax and enjoy!
Credit
|
Awareness & Wellness Center Sound Healing
Jundit European Day Spa
Located in Sewickley, this European Day spa uses all natural, organic products from Hungary, and delivers services from manis and massages to microneedling and more. Try the Hungarian Paprika Cellulite treatment or the Omorovicza Gold Hydra Lifting Facial for an extra luxurious experience.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Judit Day Spa (@judit_day_spa)
Pittsburgh Center for Complementary Health and Healing
Voted “Best Massage, Best Spa and Best Wellness Center" by the Readers Poll of Pittsburgh Magazine, Trib Total Media, Spaindex and
expertise.com
, this isn’t your conventional spa.
Beyond the traditional spa services, the Pittsburgh Center for Complementary Health and Healing takes a holistic approach to wellness by offering a myriad of services and classes designed to relax the body and soul. Try nontraditional treatments like Didgeradoo Sound Therapy or Sacred Stone Facial.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by PGH Health & Healing (@pghhealthandhealing)
Stonewater Salon and Spa
Tucked in the South Hills suburbs of Pittsburgh, this full-service Aveda salon and spa can meet all your hair needs. Pulling into the parking lot makes you feel like you’ve left the city and your cares behind. The stone building looks more like a mountain retreat than a South Hills location.
Choose from a traditional list of salon services in addition to a variety of massages designed to relax every part of your body. Refresh your skin with a DMK Enzyme Treatment. Have you been going hard at the gym lately? Try a Sports massage. Stonewater Salon and Spa is the spot for a South Hills spa experience.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by STONEWATER SALON & SPA (@stonewatersalonandspa)
Nemacolin Woodlands Resort
Situated on 2,000 acres in the Laurel Highlands of Southwestern PA, nothing compares to Nemacolin Woodlands Resort. Complimentary experiences include an indoor pool, whirlpool, eucalyptus lavender-infused steam and sauna. A long list of prestigious salon and spa services includes a Five Elements Journey treatment, Immersion packages for ultimate relaxation and seasonally specific experiences.
The only warning is that a treatment at Nemacolin Woodlands Resort Spa may spoil future spa experiences anywhere else.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Dr. Kimberly Kong📍DC/MD/VA (@bykimberlykong)
Fillir
Named the best in the city by Pittsburgh Magazine readers in 2023,
Fillir
medical spa offers a unique mix of aesthetic treatments in a boutique space that makes injectables something easy to understand. Check out their locations in Lawrenceville and the South Hills for botox, microneedling, chemical peels, facials and much more.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by fillir (@get.fillir)
Related Blogs
Holistic Wellness in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Top Green Spaces and Public Parks in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Spark a Love of the Arts | 2024 Children’s & Bridge Theater Series
Learn More
Pittsburgh, We Have Liftoff
Learn More
Pittsburgh Holiday Lights
Learn More
Author
Asaka N.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map