BURGH101 | Intro to Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

BURGH101 | Intro to Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Welcome to Pittsburgh
College Students
Home
Plan Your Trip
College Visits
BURGH101
BURGH101
Explore your city! Year-round discounts for Pittsburgh and Allegheny County undergrad and grad students and their families are just a download away.
About BURGH101
BURGH101 welcomes new and returning college students and their families by providing year-round discounts at local businesses and attractions throughout the city, free!
Simply download the free BURGH101 Passport starting Aug. 1, 2024 to put discounts and special offers in the palm of your hands.
Scroll down for instructions:
Burgh 101 – The Class Everyone Aces!
Students know why Forbes ranked Pittsburgh #2 on its list of Best U.S. Cities for College Students and Graduates for 2024. And while Pittsburgh is recognized as affordable city, Burgh 101 helps student budgets go even further. Use your free Burgh 101 pass to:
Venture off campus to explore new neighborhoods while supporting local-owned businesses, or use the pass online
Expand your palate by experiencing a wide array of niche and notable culinary, cafe, and libation options
Visit world-class cultural attractions from museums and film houses to concert halls and live theater
Leave the dorm for the great outdoors: explore miles of bike trails, or get a river’s eye view of the city from a kayak or tiki boat
Take advantage of hotel discounts when family and friends visit – and then show them the town!
Course Content
The following businesses are participating in BURGH101 for Fall 2024-Spring 2025 semesters, offering discounts and other perks when college students and their families use their code online or show their BURGH101 pass in person. New businesses will be added throughout the year, so check this list often.
Presenting Partner
Point Park University
Embrace a truly dynamic and unique education at
Point Park University
, the only university located in downtown Pittsburgh. Experience a hands-on, practical learning approach that fosters real-world skills and knowledge. Choose from a diverse array of over 100 undergraduate, master's, and doctoral programs, each offering students their own unique real-world experiences. All of this takes place on our campus situated in one of the most vibrant and exhilarating urban areas in the country.
Classes by Point Park University
Credit
|
John Altdorfer
Featured BURGH101 Partners
ASCEND Climbing
ASCEND South Side - 2141 Mary Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15203
ASCEND Point Breeze - 7443 Thomas Blvd, Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Founded in Pittsburgh, PA, ASCEND operates facilities that offer community-centered climbing, fitness, yoga, youth programs, and community events, by serving individuals and groups of all ages, backgrounds, and abilities. Located in Pittsburgh’s South Side and Point Breeze neighborhoods, as well as Erie, PA. Find Your Summit in the City!
North Shore Tavern
120 Federal St, Pittsburgh, PA 15212
Pittsburgh’s most memorable meal is at North Shore Tavern, home of Steak on a Stone. Our signature meals include; Filet Mignon, New York Strip, Jumbo Shrimp, Jumbo Scallops and more, which are prepared and served on a 700º lava stone and finished cooking at your table. Located a stones throw from PNC Park, this is a must stop destination for great drinks and amazing food and Pirates fans will enjoy the baseball memorabilia located throughout the restaurant. For reservations, find us on OpenTable or call 412-465-9865 for this truly unique experience.
Bigelow Grille Kitchen + Bar
1 Bigelow Sq, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Welcome to the Bigelow Grille Kitchen & Bar in Pittsburgh! Our comfortable culinary space is located inside the DoubleTree Hotel. Visit us and indulge in a range of comfort foods served with local beer and specialty custom craft cocktails. Situated close to the PPG Paints Arena, our hotel is perfect for you to relax with family and friends before or after any event. Take a bus from Oakland and enjoy downtown. BURGH101 participants enjoy 10% off your check and Free Chocolate Chip Cookie after your meal!
Additional BURGH101 Partners
Alihan's Coffee & Breakfast
Alihan's Mediterranean Cuisine
Amped Airsoft Arena
August Wilson African American Cultural Center
Boutique La Passerelle
Bradford House Museum
City of Asylum Bookstore
City Theatre
Clarissa Boutique
Contemporary Craft
Courtyard Pittsburgh Downtown
Crystal River Gems
Crowne Plaza Hotel & Suites Pittsburgh South
Cruisin' Tikis Pittsburgh
Dave and Buster's Homestead
Emporio: A Meatball Joint
Esspa Kozmetika Organic Day Spa and Skincare Salon
Fairfield Inn & Suites Pittsburgh Downtown
Film Pittsburgh
Frank Lloyd Wright's Kentuck Knob
Grandpa Joe's Candy Shop
Greater Latrobe Laurel Valley Chamber of Commerce
Hampton Inn & Suites Pittsburgh-Downtown
Hampton Inn Pittsburgh Greentree
Hello Bistro
Hilton Garden Inn Pittsburgh Airport
Home2 Suites by Hilton Pittsburgh/McCandless
Hotel Indigo Pittsburgh University Oakland
Howl at the Moon
HYATT house™ Pittsburgh Bloomfield/Shadyside
The Jimmy Stewart Museum
Joinery Hotel Pittsburgh
Kayak Pittsburgh
Kinship Corporate Gifting
La Quinta Inn By Wyndham - Pittsburgh Airport
Lawrence Hall
Live Fresh Juicery
Mattress Factory Museum of Contemporary Art
McCormick & Schmick's
Millie's Homemade Ice Cream
Moonshot Museum
Museum of Illusions Pittsburgh
My Favorite Sweet Shoppe
Omni William Penn
OnPar Now
Passport to Pittsburgh
Penn Brewery
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Pittsburgh Pirates
Pittsburgh Steelers
Reva Modern Indian Cuisine
Rezzanine Esports
Roxian Theatre
Rush Hour Boat Charters
Sally Ann's
Sankalp The Taste of India
Segway Pittsburgh
Sheraton Pittsburgh Hotel at Station Square
Steel City
Steel City Salt Company
Sub Zero Nitrogen Ice Cream
täkō
täkō tôrtä
TRYP by Wyndham Pittsburgh
Vallozzi's Pittsburgh
Velum Fermentation
The Westin Pittsburgh
Wigle Whiskey Distillery
Authentic Experiences
College Visits
​Thinking of attending college in Pittsburgh?
Learn More
Colleges & Universities
​Pittsburgh is among the top cities for educated young people, behind only Washington, D.C., Boston…
Learn More
College Sports
Catch a game at one of the many universities in Pittsburgh, including the University of…
Learn More
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Learn More
Related Blog Posts
Pittsburgh: A Great City for College Students
Hello, I’m Jeremy — I grew up right outside of Pittsburgh, and I’m very proud to say that I currently…
Details
A Weekend Around Pittsburgh by Bus | Student Perspectives
A Pitt student's guide to seeing the best of the city by bus
Details
Feasting Through Pittsburgh: My Journey & Foodie Guide | Student Perspectives
Why the people, culture and food scene made it an easy decision to stay here for college
Details
Move-In Day | Pittsburgh College Guide
Have some Pittsburgh questions while moving your kid into college? You’ve come to the right place.
Details
Burgh Bound from Buffalo | Student Perspectives
Great connections. An incredible campus. Energetic Downtown. There's lots of reasons to love being a college student in Pittsburgh.
Details
Pittsburgh Dining Guide: Oakland Neighborhood
A collision of college and cultural cuisines
Details
Game Day Bars in Pittsburgh
One of the best sports cities in the nation has some great sports bars to go along with their teams!
Details
5 Reasons Why the 2024 Backyard Brawl Will Continue to Live Up to the Hype
One of College Football's Best Rivalries Returns to Acrisure Stadium on Sept. 14
Details
Instagram-Worthy Spots in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is photo-worthy, but what are the top spots to snap a selfie for the Gram?
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map