25 Best Things to Do in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

25 Best Things to Do in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
< Back
Top 25 Things to Do in Pittsburgh
Wondering what there is to see in Pittsburgh? We’ve put together an extensive list of must-visit attractions worth adding to your itinerary.
Credit
|
Dustin McGrew
1.
Acrisure Stadium
Show off your black and gold and roar with the crowd as the
Steelers
charge onto the field at Acrisure Stadium. Between games, learn about the stadium on a tour or journey through the
Steelers Hall of Honor Museum
to witness rare artifacts and recreations of the biggest team moments.
2.
The Andy Warhol Museum
Step into the vibrant world of Pop Art at
The Andy Warhol Museum
! Explore an extensive collection of Warhol's boundary-pushing pieces, complemented by thought-provoking works from modern artists.
3.
Bicycle Heaven Museum
Pedal into the Bicycle Heaven Museum, a cyclists’ paradise boasting the world’s most extensive collection of bikes. Marvel at famous movie bikes, including the bike from Pee-wee's Big Adventure, then rent a ride or get a tune-up in this gear-head's paradise.
4.
Cathedral of Learning
Ascend through history as you explore the Cathedral of Learning, a towering 535-foot Gothic masterpiece. Keep your eyes to the skies during your visit – this National Historic Landmark is home to a family of peregrine falcons nesting high above the city.
5.
Carnegie Museum of Art
Wander through the halls of the Carnegie Museum of Art to admire artworks from around the world highlighting a range of artistic mediums. Whether you're drawn to classical paintings or modern installations, there's always something new to discover.
6.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Discover the secrets of the Earth’s past at the
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
, home to ancient Egyptian artifacts, towering dinosaur skeletons, dazzling gems, and other incredible specimens. Uncover the stories of evolution, conservation, and biodiversity through the museum’s impressive collections.
7.
Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh
Spark your child's imagination and let curiosity lead the way at the Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh! The museum’s permanent and rotating exhibits explore the arts and science and encourage hands-on learning. Next door, the MuseumLab offers even more exciting experiences for older children.
8.
Carnegie Science Center
Unleash your inner scientist at the Carnegie Science Center, where the planetarium will take you on an out-of-this-world experience and interactive exhibits make learning about the universe an adventure. With four floors to explore, there’s no shortage of excitement for visitors of all ages.
9.
Duquesne Incline
Hop on the iconic red and yellow cars of the
Duquesne Incline
to glide 400 feet above the three rivers. In just a few minutes, you’ll be treated to sweeping views of the Downtown skyline that are nothing short of breathtaking. Be sure to check out our guide for the
best tips on riding this historic funicular
.
10.
Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater
Architecture lovers won’t want to miss
Fallingwater
, the iconic Frank Lloyd Wright home that appears to float above its natural surroundings. With its original furnishings and artwork still intact, this is the only Frank Lloyd Wright house of its kind. Guided tours offer a deeper look at the home's stunning design, preserved furnishings, and breathtaking surroundings.
11.
The Frick Pittsburgh
Tour a stunning collection of museums and historical buildings set on six acres of gardens when you visit
The Frick
. From fine art exhibitions to the Car and Carriage Museum, this complex offers a glimpse into the life of Henry Clay Frick.
12.
Gateway Clipper River Tours
Set out on a
Gateway Clipper River Tour
and see Pittsburgh from a whole new perspective. Sail along the three rivers for a sightseeing cruise or climb aboard for a dinner voyage. You can even catch a ride to major concerts or sporting events for a fun way to travel around the city!
13.
Heinz History Center
Dive into Pittsburgh’s rich history at the
Heinz History Center
, where six floors of interactive exhibits and iconic artifacts await. The exhibits showcase Pittsburgh’s innovation over the years, including the history of Heinz, and treasured artifacts like the original Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood set.
14.
Kennywood
Get your heart racing at
Kennywood
, Pittsburgh’s favorite amusement park, where thrilling roller coasters and family-friendly rides promise non-stop fun. Open from spring through December, it’s a must-visit for adventure seekers.
15.
Market Square
Find yourself in the center of the action at Market Square, where year-round events and markets bring the community together. Stroll through the square and visit the shops or enjoy a casual meal at one of the local restaurants.
16.
Mattress Factory
Enter a world of bold and immersive art at the Mattress Factory – an innovative museum with contemporary art installations that will challenge your imagination. See art from a new perspective as you immerse yourself in each unique gallery.
17.
National Aviary
Explore the tropical wonders of the
National Aviary
, where more than 500 exotic birds and mammals call home. Participate in the aviary’s interactive activities to gain a deeper appreciation for wildlife and conservation.
18.
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
Take a serene stroll through 15 acres of lush greenery and 23 stunning gardens at
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
. Enjoy exotic plants, seasonal displays, breathtaking glasshouse rooms, and special exhibits throughout the year.
19.
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
Encounter wildlife from around the world and the deep sea at
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
. Attend special events throughout the year and learn about zoo animals during your visit.
20.
PNC Park
Catch the Pittsburgh Pirates scoring a home run at PNC Park in
North Shore
. Take in panoramic views of the city skyline while watching the team swings for the fences. Be sure to visit on an empty stomach so you can savor all of the
ballpark’s delectable food
!
21.
Point State Park
Relax at Point State Park, a peaceful green space in the heart of downtown where the Monongahela, Allegheny, and Ohio rivers converge. Explore the park’s historic monuments and enjoy a picnic by the iconic fountain.
22.
Primanti Bros.
Did you know there are some
foods you can only get in Pittsburgh
? No trip to our city is complete without sinking your teeth into a Primanti Sandwich, piled high with coleslaw and fries. This local favorite is a must-try for foodies.
23. Randyland
Experience pure artistic expression at Randyland, where the bold vision of artist Randy Gilson has transformed an entire courtyard into a kaleidoscope of color. Murals, quirky sculptures, and bright designs fill every inch, making it a joyful celebration of art in Pittsburgh.
24.
Strip District
Indulge your senses in the Strip District, Pittsburgh’s lively foodie haven filled with ethnic grocers, street vendors, and fresh produce. It’s the place to find fresh ingredients, unique gifts, and a true taste of Pittsburgh.
Pictured
|
The Strip District
Credit
|
Jody Mader Photography
Pictured
|
The Strip District
Credit
|
Jody Mader Photography
25.
Three Rivers Heritage Trail
Hike or bike along the Three Rivers Heritage Trail, a 33-mile greenway that runs alongside Pittsburgh’s rivers. Connecting Downtown with many of Pittsburgh’s other
neighborhoods
, it’s a great way to enjoy the outdoors and uncover less traveled spots in the city.
Still looking for more Pittsburgh experiences? Explore the city’s many
hidden gems
or attend a
community event
showcasing the diverse neighborhoods, local flavors, and creative energy and
let Pittsburgh surprise you
.
Explore More
Things to Do
A City of Multitudes
Learn More
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Learn More
Family Fun
Won't you be our neighbor?
Learn More
Events & Festivals
​There's always something happening in Pittsburgh.
Learn More
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map