Biking in Pittsburgh | Top Bike Trails, Maps & Shops | Visit Pittsburgh

Biking in Pittsburgh | Top Bike Trails, Maps & Shops | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Things to Do
Outdoor Adventure
Biking in Pittsburgh
Biking in Pittsburgh
Whether you're a hard core cyclist or a casual weekend bike trail enthusiast, Pittsburgh has the bicycle experience for you!
Pittsburgh has a strong and devoted community of cyclists who are eager to welcome you to their city. Let Pittsburgh wow you not only with its bike-accessible hotels and public transportation, but also its beautiful trails, fascinating and fun tours, and accommodating shops with knowledgeable and passionate staff.
In fact, People for Bikes, one of the nation’s leading organizations dedicated to making bicycling safer, more convenient and appealing for everyone, named Pittsburgh among the
top 20 cities
in the United States for people on bicycles. Included in the evaluation were five key indicators: ridership, safety, network, reach and acceleration. Pittsburgh performed particularly well in terms of safety (how safe it is to ride bikes) and acceleration (how fast the community is working to improve biking).
There is so much to see and do in Pittsburgh — all you need is your bike!
POGOH Bikeshare
Learn More
Bicycle Heaven Museum
Learn More
Bike the Burgh Tours
Learn More
Top Pittsburgh Bike Trails
Pittsburgh's unique topographic blend of steep, winding hills and flat river areas makes it one of the best cities for cycling enthusiasts.
1. Frick Park
The largest of
Pittsburgh's regional parks
, Frick Park boasts an extensive system of trails throughout steep valleys and wooded slopes. Frick Park stretches from Point Breeze in the North, down to the Monongahela River on its southern border and is the perfect quiet escape from the hustle and bustle of the city.
2. Schenley Park
Schenley Park can be found in the
Oakland neighborhood
and houses
Phipps Conservatory
, the Schenley Park Café, Bob O' Connor Golf Course, and the Schenley Oval Sportsplex, not to mention a number of interconnected and sprawling trails waiting to be explored.
3. Highland Park
Water is the main focus of this historic park, as it is home to Pittsburgh reservoirs, a fountain and reflecting pool at its entrance, a swimming pool, Lake Carnegie, as well as the
Pittsburgh Zoo and PPG Aquarium
. This park also features the Reservoir Loop, a bike track, and many trails connecting all parts of the park.
4.
The Great Allegheny Passage
One of Pittsburgh's outdoor claims to fame is The Great Allegheny Passage, also known as the GAP Trail, a 150 mile connection from Pennsylvania to Maryland. The trail passes through Cumberland Narrows, crosses the Mason-Dixon Line, snakes across the Laurel Highlands through Ohiopyle State Park, and ends right in
Downtown Pittsburgh
at the beautiful Point State Park.
5.
Montour Trail
Branching off of the GAP Trail is the Montour Trail, which extends from Coraopolis, PA to Clairton, PA. The Montour Trail connects
Pittsburgh International Airport
to the GAP, which ultimately connects as far south as Washington, D.C.
6. Three Rivers Heritage Trail
Lining the banks of Pittsburgh's famous three rivers, the Three Rivers Heritage Trail is a popular system of trials that is use for exercise, recreation, and provides a safe route for bike commuters. Enjoy a scenic ride along one of Pittsburgh’s beautiful riverfronts. There is really no wrong choice.
7. Main Line Canal Greenway
The 320-mile trail that connects Pittsburgh to Harrisburg follows the historic path of the Main Line Canal Greenway. The focus of the trail is to create a connection that is not only physical, but also a human connection that is as unique as the land and countryside that surrounds it.
Pittsburgh Bike Maps
BikePGH
— a registered 501(c)(3) non-profit dedicated to preserving and improving upon Pittsburgh's standing as a bicycle-friendly community — manages, maintains and updates a
series of helpful maps
that provide riders with a comprehensive overview of Pittsburgh's many bike lanes, paths, trails and other biking infrastructure. The latest version of their Pittsburgh Bike Map highlights new street bike routes, an updated catalog of Pittsburgh bike shops, helpful illustrations, a comprehensive legend and much more.
Click here
to download a PDF version.
BikePGH also maintains a interactive bike map available
online
.
Click here
to load the interactive map in full screen.
Open Streets
OpenStreetsPGH
is a free event series run by BikePGH. It is a group of businesses, neighbors, non-profits, and others who want to help Pittsburgh be the healthiest, most active, and happiest city it can be. Three times a year, OpenStreetsPGH closes down a city street and uses it for fitness workshops, kids activities, shopping, brunch, community arts, and special promotions from over 100 local businesses and organizations.
POGOH Bike Share
POGOH
is Pittsburgh's bike share system. Bike-sharing is meant for quick trips around the city of Pittsburgh. Customers can pick up a bicycle at 50 stations throughout the city, return the bike at one of the other stations, and move about their day.
It's as easy as registering, renting, riding and returning! Sign up to rent bikes through the
PBSC
app, the
POGOH
website, or at a POGOH station kiosk.
Cultural Trust Art Bike Racks
Pittsburgh's arts and cycling communities come together in the form of
Art Bike Racks
sponsored by the
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
. Be on the lookout for some fun and interesting bike racks as you travel through
Pittsburgh's unique neighborhoods
via bike lanes that extended throughout the city. Don't forget to snap a pic!
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
Port Authority
Pittsburgh is committed to supporting its bicycling community as well as all of its visiting cyclists, so much so that the city's public buses and light rail system, called the T, encourage travelers to combine modes of transportation by providing space for you to store your bicycle.
Each bus has racks on the front for bike storage while you ride, so you can get through town and get out into the beautiful nature that is so perfectly integrated into the city.
Pittsburgh's light rail system, better known as the T, is also bike friendly. Two bikes per train car are allowed on the T at all times in any direction in a designated area. Find more information about Pittsburgh's bike-friendly public transportation on the
Port Authority Website
.
Bike-Friendly Hotels
Traveler's Rest Hotel
Kimpton Hotel Monaco
The Priory
Shadyside Inn All Suites Hotel
Local Cycling Organizations
Allegheny Cycling Association
Conducts and organizes bicycle racing for riders of all abilities within Western Pennsylvania and encourages nationwide competition of its members.
Bike Pittsburgh
Partners with local stakeholders to increase the safety and accessibility of bike transportation in the city through street, bridge and trail improvement. Also check out their Google Calendar of local events.
Pedal Pittsburgh
The region's premier cycling event celebrating design, health and fitness, and urban lifestyles.
Western PA Wheelmen
Founded in 1969; one of the largest cycling clubs in Pennsylvania.
Bike Shops
•
Thick Bikes
•
Kraynick’s Bike Shop Inc.
•
Bear Dog Bicycles
•
PRO BIKE+RUN Robinson
•
Kindred Cycles
•
PRO BIKE+RUN South Hills
•
Iron City Bikes
•
PRO BIKE+RUN Strip District
•
Fern Hollow Bicycles
•
West Liberty Cycles
•
Biketek Pittsburgh
•
Rusty Sprocket Bike Shop
•
Bicycle Heaven
Share Your Story On Social #LOVEPGH
Related Blog Posts
Pittsburgh Indoor Fun
Learn More
Biking in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Bike Instead: Restaurants on PGH Bike Trails
Learn More
Tour the
​
‘
Burgh
Learn More
Suggested Content
Marathons, Runs, Walks & Races
Run, walk or trot through the neighborhoods of Pittsburgh during some of the fastest growing racing events in the nation.
Details
Trails
On foot, by bike or in the water, the ways to experience Pittsburgh and Allegheny County are endless.
Details
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Details
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map