Monuments, Memorials & Sculptures | A North Shore Walking Tour #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh

Monuments, Memorials & Sculptures | A North Shore Walking Tour #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Monuments, Memorials & Sculptures | A North Shore Walking Tour
Monuments, memorials, sculptures and history along the river front
With the bustle of game day, the roar of the crowds and fun of tailgates, the North Shore is a happening place. However, there's plenty to do in this area besides sports, with monuments, statues and public art lining the riverfront.
We invite you to slow down, visit early and give yourself time to reflect and enjoy each of these stops. This entire trip can be done in 1-2 hours and is entirely flat, making it easy for visitors of all ages to do at their own pace.
For this walking tour, we recommend parking nearby at the Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center lot. From there, follow the
directions
below to easily find all of the places mentioned in this article.
Tribute to Children
This stunning statue to America's Favorite Neighbor, Fred Rogers, was unveiled on Nov. 5, 2009. The 7,000 pound bronze statue of Mister Rogers is the focal point, seated in his signature pose and gazing out at his neighborhood, the Pittsburgh skyline where he spent his life educating and listening to children. He's framed by a keyhole-like design of the repurposed Manchester Bridge pier (we'll see another relic of this later on this tour)
It's always nice to linger here for a moment, as 29 of Fred Roger's compositions play throughout the day, allowing for a quick escape into the Neighborhood of Make Believe or just a nice reaffirmation that you are special!
Law Enforcement Officers Memorial
Almost right next to the Tribute to Children is our next stop. Originally dedicated in 1996, the Law Enforcement Officers Memorial of Allegheny County honors fallen officers of the Pittsburgh Police and additional suburban police departments.
Manchester Bridge Sculpture
Turn around from the officers memorial to find perhaps one of the oldest displays of public art in Pittsburgh. Right outside of
Acrisure Stadium
is this enormous bronze sculpture which once adorned the Manchester Bridge way back in 1917.
This century old sculpture features frontiersman Christopher Gist and Chief Guyasuta of the Seneca Tribe of the Iroquois Nation (both famous for guiding George Washington through the region) kneeling on each side of the Pittsburgh city seal.
Art Rooney Statue
From this sculpture, head up Art Rooney Avenue until you see the statue of Mr. Rooney himself, tucked into a copse of trees and facing Acrisure Stadium. Take a moment and sit with "The Chief," the Pro Football Hall of Famer and founding owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers.
Immaculate Reception Monument
Continue down Art Rooney Avenue and turn right onto West General Robinson Street for maybe the most iconic sports memorial anywhere. The Immaculate Reception Monument remembers the greatest NFL play of all time, signifying the exact spot of this miraculous catch with a bronze plate featuring the footprint of Franco Harris, who made the astounding play.
This play gave the Steelers their first playoff win in 1972, and the team would go on to have a league-leading six Super Bowl victories. The
Immaculate Reception turns 50
in 2022, making this a must-see.
Immaculate Reception monument - a holy pilgrimage for any non-Raiders football fan
Southwestern Pennsylvania World War II Memorial
Turn right onto Chuck Noll Way and continue back towards the waterfront and you'll find the Southwestern Pennsylvania World War II Memorial on your right. Dedicated in 2013, this combination outdoor museum and public art piece focuses strongly on education, showing the ways Pittsburgh citizens engaged in wartime activities, and positioned so that visitors can easily contras the older images of the city with the bustling Pittsburgh of today.
Pittsburgh Allegheny County Vietnam Veterans Monument
Descend the stairs to the Three Rivers Heritage Trail and turn left and you'll quickly come upon the Vietnam Veterans Monument, installed in 1987. There's a lot to take in here, from the towering hibiscus flower pod that frames the exhibit to the statues of veterans returning to their families and wind chimes offering up prayers to the dead.
Korean War Memorial
Continue under the Fort Duquesne Bridge and you'll come to the Korean War Memorial. This subtle monument delicately expresses itself throughout the way, mixing light and shadow as the sun passes over and through the separate columns, symbolizing human spirit and expression of those who served in the Korean War.
PNC Park and Riverwalk
Continue down the path to see the newest additions to the North Shore. As you pass the outfield of PNC Park, oversized baseballs span the entire riverwalk spotlighting prominent Pittsburgh Pirates, Pittsburgh Crawfords and Homestead Greys players. As you come to the end of the stadium, large numbers from retired players are spaced throughout a curved walking area.
Consider making a full loop around the stadium as well to see bronze statues of Honus Wagner, Roberto Clemente, Willie Stargell and Bill Mazeroski. Each tells a particular story of a famed player, and are positioned to make for great photo ops.
Piazza Lavoro & Mythic Source
Continue down the Three Rivers Heritage Trail when you're done, passing under the 6th Street bridge, to come to our final stop, Allegheny Landing. While so much of this tour has focused on sports and military memorials, this commission is dedicated entirely to to labor. Figures depicted in this sprawling monument are all engaged in different forms of labor, with the two-tiered design literally representing the heights to which labor can bring civilization.
This formally concludes this tour! If you worked up an appetite, you're in luck as a number of great lunch and dinner spots are a short walk away from this spot. Or, take the leisurely one mile walk back to your car along the Three Rivers Heritage Trail. Happy exploring!
Related Blogs
A Guide to Acrisure Stadium for Steelers Fans
Learn More
Clemente’s Legacy | Pittsburgh and Puerto Rico, Connected
Learn More
Instagram-Worthy Spots in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Things to Do Before Concerts on the North Shore
Learn More
Family Time in the North Shore & Northside Neighborhoods
Learn More
Top 5 Reasons to Attend the National Senior Games in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map