Pittsburgh's Must-See Murals | Street Art Comes Alive #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh

Pittsburgh's Must-See Murals | Street Art Comes Alive #LovePGH | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Pittsburgh's Must-See Murals
From portraits of Pittsburgh legends to community-created masterpieces, there are so many incredible murals to discover in Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh is home to a diverse arts and culture scene, which includes an eclectic collection of fantastic murals throughout the city’s 90 unique neighborhoods. Ranging from powerful tributes, like Kyle Hoolbrook’s
John Lewis Mural
or Jeremy Raymer’s
Roberto Clemente
, to community messages, like James "Yaya" Hough's
A Gift to the Hill District
and Monika McAndrew’s
Bridging the Generations
of Bloomfield, countless colorful, creative and meaningful murals can be found all over the city.
Read on to learn more about community mural projects in Pittsburgh.
Above:
Love in the Clouds
is Ashley Hodder’s first mural in the Daydream Station series. It’s located in Pittsburgh’s Allentown neighborhood on Beltzhoover Avenue.
Pittsburgh Mural Itinerary:
Save
The Society to Preserve the Millvale Murals of Maxo Vanka
24 Maryland Ave.
Millvale, Pennsylvania 15209
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
1
The Society to Preserve the Millvale Murals of Maxo Vanka
The Society to Preserve the Millvale Murals of Maxo Vanka
24 Maryland Ave.
Millvale, Pennsylvania 15209
(412) 408-3180
Details
Website
Save
Rivers of Steel
623 East 8th Ave., The Bost Building
Homestead, Pennsylvania 15120
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
2
Rivers of Steel
Rivers of Steel
623 East 8th Ave., The Bost Building
Homestead, Pennsylvania 15120
(412) 464-4020
Details
Website
3
Mac Miller
Artist: Gustavo Zermeño Jr.
363 Butler St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15223
Mural is located on the wall of I.D. Labs facing the parking lot
4
A Gift to the Hill District
Artist: James "Yaya" Hough
2317 Centre Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA
5
Tom Savini
Artist: Jeremy Raymer
166 Almond Way
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
6
Magneto
Artist: Jeremy Raymer
3315 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA
7
Home Alone
Artist: Jeremy Raymer
3526 Butler St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
Located on back wall of this small parklet ringed by murals.
8
Roberto Clemente
Artist: Kyle Holbrook
3339 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
9
Josh Gibson
Artist: Jeremy Raymer
268 Hazel Way
Homestead, PA 15120
10
Fabrics of the Community
Artist: Jackie Kresak
4202 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15224
11
Liberation Wall
Artist: Kyle Holbrook
7120 Kelly St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
12
The Bride on Penn Ave.
Artists: Judy Penzer, Jill Watson, restoration by Ashley Hodder
5443 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
13
troy loves hill
Artist: Carolyn Kelly
1705 Lowrie St.
Pittsburgh, PA
14
Homewood is Black Joy
Artist: Camerin "Camo" Nesbit
531 N. Homewood Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
15
New Amsterdam
Artist: Dan Kitchener
4421 Butler St.
Pittsburgh, PA
16
Attic Records Music Murals
Artist: Sandy Kessler
513 Grant Ave.
Millvale, PA 15209
17
Without Community
Artist: Tori Shao
4574 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15224
18
Hulk x Wolverine
Artists: Jeremy Raymer and Matt Gondek
3101 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
19
Spirit Walls
Artists: Brian Gonnella and collaborative artists (changes yearly)
245 51st St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
20
Solidarity for Change
Artist: Matt Speck
3100 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA
21
Flight of Doves
Artist: Jeremy Raymer
176 42nd. St.
Pittsburgh, PA
22
Gingevitus
Artist: V Jennings
4744 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15224
23
The Clay Penn
5111 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15224
24
The Two Andys
Artists: Tom Mosser and Sarah Zeffiro
25
The Strip Mural
Artists: Carley Parrish and Shannon Pultz
1907 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA
26
Birds Eye View
Artist: Kristin Williams
569 W. Hutchinson Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15218
27
Pittsburgh Postcard
Artist: Phil Seth
259 6th St.
Pittsburgh, PA
28
Strawberry Way
Artists: Max Gonzales, Shane Pilster and Pittsburgh CAPA students
458 Strawberry Way
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Start Here - Mac Miller, August Wilson & Strawberry Way
Pittsburgh's mural scene is ever-evolving, with new creations popping up across the city, from sprawling works that take up an entire building to street art that practically pops up overnight.
The newest
Mac Miller
mural, located on the side of
ID Labs in Etna
where he recorded, is a stunning homage to the Pittsburgh rapper. Pictures don't do it justice; there are details and easter eggs chronicling Miller's brief but impactful career you can only notice in person. Artist Gustavo Zermeño Jr. might be a California native but this mural makes him welcome at Blue Slide Park anytime.
James "Yaya" Hough's
A Gift to the Hill District
celebrates the
historic neighborhood
with a tableau of evocative scenes and words that challenge the viewer. The story behind it's creation makes this mural even more impactful, as the Pittsburgh-based artist created this piece in collaboration with the community, holding workshops and paint days to create each panel.
Rainbow Road isn't just a Mario Kart course anymore.
Strawberry Way
got a complete overhaul in 2022! Nearly 40 grade school students combined efforts to complete individual sections, then each part was linked together through an intricate rainbow motif over 440 feet of walkway. I recommend starting at
Grant
and walking the entire way through to Liberty for the full experience (Bonus Art: Look up at the intersection of Liberty and Strawberry for
The Two Andys
mural, a playful imagination of Pittsburgh's Andy Warhol and Andrew Carnegie at the beauty salon).
Pop Culture Explosion - From Warhol to Savini and Magneto
There's a joy in discovering new murals, especially when the subject is something so recognizable and exciting you pull the car over to get your photo.
Perhaps the best example of this is the 2,000 square-foot portrait of Pittsburgh horror icon
Tom Savini
in
Lawrenceville
. Savini holds the signature Jason Voorhees mask he created for the Friday the 13th films in this towering tribute by artist Jeremy Raymer
(learn more about our horror heritage
).
Raymer's works can be found all over the city, but my favorites are all within walking distance of each other. Start by discovering the X-Men villain
Magneto
who an be found bending the walls and gates of AAA Scrap Iron on Penn.
From there, head towards Lawrenceville on Butler for a small park surrounded by Raymer creations, including a photo-op favorite Home Alone mural. Walk to the Savini mural noting other murals tucked into alleyways, then walk back along Charlotte St. to discover this small streets loaded with Raymers. Slimer, Home Simpson, Mr. Burns and a super-fun pixel version of Andy Warhol are just some of my favorites you'll see on this stretch.
Sports Heroes
For many of us, the story of Pittsburgh is told through the legends that played here. Artist Kyle Holbrook (more on him below) made the showstopping mural of
Roberto Clemente
that adorns the side of the
The Clemente Museum
, a sight which has made even the most hardened Yinzers leave with a tear in their eye. Like other murals, this collaboration involved the community contributing small details, so it's worth parking the car and looking all of the hidden pictures contained within.
Other must-see baseball murals include The Legends of Pittsburgh, featuring some of the best Pirates players all-time hidden under the Boulevard of the Allies with a replication of the outfield wall of Forbes Field. While you're exploring the Homestead neighborhood, check out Raymer's mural of MLB Hall of Famer and Negro League star Josh Gibson.
Insider Tip:
Former Steelers running back-turned-artist Baron Batch has murals that can be seen throughout the city, but be sure to follow him on
Instagram
. He will sometimes give away prints of his artwork through clues and photos posted on his social media.
The Homewood Experience: The Artwalk
Pittsburgh’s Homewood neighborhood launched
The Homewood Experience
, a neighborhood initiative dedicated to preserving history and instilling pride through community engagement, businesses development, sustainability and cultural integrity.
The Artwalk
, an initiative highlight, invites residents and visitors to explore Homewood by way of outdoor murals.
The Artwalk currently features 11 murals created by four different artists, including The Artwalk Coordinator and Homewood native Camerin “CAMO” Nesbit. His feature pieces include the
Homewood is Home
and
BubbleGum
murals, both located along N. Homewood Avenue. The project will continue to grow as murals and artists are added.
"Bubblegum" by Camerin "CAMO" Nesbit
MLK Community Mural Project
Moving the Lives of Kids (MLK) Community Mural Project
is a nonprofit organization with the mission to inspire, educate and empower the youth through public art. Founded by established Pittsburgh artist and muralist Kyle Holbrook, this program aims to use public art as a means to reach kids over the
summer
months to do positive community work. Through the years, the project has expanded beyond Pittsburgh and into 56 cities, 27 states and 43 countries.
The beautiful, collaborative
MLK Pittsburgh Murals
can be found in a number of neighborhoods throughout the city. In the Hill District, you’ll find a tribute to the late Pittsburgh playwright
August Wilson
. The mural was created with the support of 10 students and includes each of their favorite August Wilson plays. In East Liberty, a mural honors the late Pittsburgh-native Mac Miller. In Larimer, the
We Fall Down but We Get Back Up
mural features portraits of East Enders, which Miller helped paint with a group in 2008.
With hundreds of Pittsburgh residents engaged, the MLK Project has created more than 40 murals throughout the city, including the murals along the MLK East Busway spanning eight neighborhoods.
"John Lewis" by Kyle Holbrook
Maxo Vanka - Pittsburgh's Original Muralist?
So where does the inspiration for all of Pittsburgh's murals come from? Perhaps Maxo Vanka, the Croatian-American artist who transformed St. Nicholas Croatian Catholic Church in Millvale with 25 moving murals.
While rooted in Biblical imagery, each mural tells a deeper story about American industry, war, immigration and social justice. When you realize these awesome images were painted in 1937 and 1941, it truly shows Vanka's work is timeless in one of the best hidden gems in Pittsburgh.
Sprout Fund Community Murals
The Sprout Fund
was a nonprofit organization supporting innovative ideas and grassroots community projects in Pittsburgh. From 2003-2010, The Sprout Fund worked with community groups and dozens of local artists to create 56 large-scale works of public art in 39 different neighborhoods.
Located in Pittsburgh’s Garfield neighborhood,
Fabrics of the Community
was designed by Jackie Kresak and inspired by her mother’s quilt with the purpose of conveying the welcoming, comforting warmth of a diverse, colorful and growing community. James Maszle’s
Season of Hope
in Homewood also was part of The Sprout Fund. The mural is on a massive wall, measuring more than 200 feet in length highlighting Homewood residents, iconic symbols and local landmarks.
Visit
The Sprout Fund website
for a full listing of murals including the artists and locations.
"Fabrics of the Community" by Jackie Kresak
Even More Murals: Maps and More
To help plan your Pittsburgh mural tour, there's lots of resources to help! Visit
Street Art Cities
and use their app to explore on-the-go. Follow a specific artist like Jeremy Raymer by using his
mural map
and see how many you can find! Do a
virtual artwalk
of the Homewood Experience murals. Or, just pick a neighborhood and see what catches your eye. With new murals popping up all the time, there's always something new to discover.
Related Blogs
A Zombie Review and Some Science, Too!
Learn More
A Mac Miller Fan’s Guide to Pittsburgh
Learn More
El legado de Clemente | Pittsburgh y Puerto Rico, conectados
Learn More
Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh’s Hero!
Learn More
Pittsburgh is a Barbie World
Learn More
Celebrate Mother’s Day in Pittsburgh!
Learn More
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Learn More
Related Content:
Save
The Clemente Museum
3339 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
The Clemente Museum
The Clemente Museum
3339 Penn Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201
(412) 621-1268
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map