Historical Sites to Visit | Visit Pittsburgh

Historical Sites to Visit | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
< Back
Historical Sites to Visit
It’s no secret that Pittsburgh has been an influential city for centuries, and the evidence can be found all around the city!
Having played meaningful roles in moments and eras throughout history – the French and Indian War, the Civil Rights Movement and the Industrial Revolution - it’s only fitting that many of these involvements are memorialized throughout the city.
Fort Pitt Block House
Pittsburgh’s oldest architectural landmark, the Fort Pitt Block House is all that remains of Fort Pitt, one of the largest and most elaborate British forts and a key defense in the French and Indian War. Built in 1764, the Block House was gifted to the Fort Pitt Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution in 1894 and has remained free and open to the visitors for more than a century.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Karla D. (@karla_rotten)
Freedom Corner
Located in Pittsburgh’s Hill District neighborhood at the intersection of Centre Avenue and Crawford Street, the Freedom Corner monument marks a crucial point in Pittsburgh’s extensive Civil Rights history and serves as an important gathering location for those advocating for peace, justice and equality.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Greater Pittsburgh Arts Council (@pghartscouncil)
Tribute to Children Statue
Locally known as the Mister Rogers Memorial, the memorial was built in 2009 to commemorate Pittsburgh’s friendliest neighbor and television icon, Fred Rogers. The bronze sculpture is accompanied by a sound system so that visitors can listen to 29 musical compositions by Fred Rogers.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Kyle Philip Majerick (@ktk7895)
August Wilson House
The building, located at 1727 Bedford Ave., in Pittsburgh’s Hill District, is at the heart of American literary history. The childhood home of award-winning playwright August Wilson, the August Wilson House is dedicated to celebrating his literary and personal legacy while also serving as an arts center to the Hill District community.
Homewood Cemetery
Founded in 1878, the Homewood Cemetery is bordered by Frick Park and the Point Breeze neighborhood. It features exquisite architecture and art alongside more than 600 mature trees. A long list of notable Pittsburghers buried on-site include Henry J. Heinz, Henry Clay Frick, Charles “Teenie” Harris, Mac Miller, Chuck Cooper and many more.
Carrie Blast Furnace
Experience pre-World War II iron-making technology at the iconic and historic Carrie Blast Furnaces. Led by Rivers of Steel, tours take visitors through the non-operative blast furnaces while detailing the historical impact that the furnaces, along with the industry, had on local residents, businesses and the world.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Jared J. Kohler (@jaredjkohler)
Andy Warhol’s Grave
Andy Warhol is buried at St. John the Baptist Byzantine Catholic Cemetery in Pittsburgh-suburb Bethel Park alongside his parents, Julie and Andrej Wahola. The gravesite is often found adorned with Campbell’s soup cans to commemorate the Pittsburgh-born artist.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by ♐️ (@scenekiller)
Southwestern Pennsylvania World War II Memorial
Located along Pittsburgh’s North Shore, this awe-inspiring memorial commemorates the efforts of veterans from the region who served overseas and at home during World War II. Explore the images that tell the stories through the eyes of the veterans, their families and the people of Southwestern PA.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Katie (@quirkysights)
Author
Asaka N.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map