#LovePGH Blog | Holistic Wellness in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

#LovePGH Blog | Holistic Wellness in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Holistic Wellness in Pittsburgh
There are many ways to enjoy the benefits of holistic medicine in Pittsburgh, here are just a few.
If you've lived in Pittsburgh for any period of time, you know you can't travel more than a two-block radius before you run into a billboard for Allegheny Health Network or UPMC healthcare. They're everywhere, and for good reason. They're the medical backbone of our city. Medical professionals from around the world travel to Pittsburgh just to be a part of what we created here. Medical students from Pittsburgh and beyond vie for one of the few spots our hospitals offer in residencies. Pittsburgh has become one of the top medical capitols in the country - maybe even the world - and in a day and age when healthcare is one of the hottest topics in the news, that's something to be proud of.
When you live in a western medicine world, it’s hard to imagine anything else. What you may not know though, is that Pittsburgh also offers a whole other side to medicine - the eastern side.
Eastern Medicine
Eastern medicine is often referred to as Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and dates back thousands of years. It’s known for its holistic approach that often includes herbal medicine, acupuncture, massage, exercise, and dietary therapy, among others. It claims to be a long-term approach that looks at each individual uniquely, the relationship between mind and body, and creates a treatment plan accordingly. Just like you wouldn't have to travel far to find a hospital in Pittsburgh, you don't have to travel far to find alternative medicine either.
There are a lot of different methods out there when it comes to TCM, all focusing on varying aspects of the mind and body. Below are a few treatment examples.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Dr. Christina Fontana (@thepharmacistcoach)
Himalayan Salt Cave
East Liberty is home to
Peace, Love and Zen
whose goal is “provide a sanctuary where members of the community can de-stress while receiving state-of-the-art natural therapy.” Their services range far and wide, but among them is a Himalayan Salt Cave. Halotherapy, or “salt therapy,” involves salt particles that are inhaled deep into the lungs to help loosen congestion, increase oxygen intake and cleanse the airways of smoke, dust, pollution, pollens and other allergens. At Peace, Love, and Zen, all this takes place in the comfort of a lounge chair in what looks like a real cave. Those who have experienced it claim to have better breathing, improved skin and an overall sense of relaxation.
Reflexology
Part of the core practice in TCM is homing in on the senses, and how they respond to various treatments. Pittsburgh is home to a few businesses that use this method.
Reflexology has been practiced in China for over 4000 years. Through gentle manipulation of the feet, positive effects can be created elsewhere in the body. Beyond treating a myriad of medical conditions, reflexology also reduces stress. There are a handful of places that offer this around the city, one in particular,
Happy Feet
, is located right in Southside.
Floating
If foot massages and salt caves aren't your thing, try floating. That's right, floating; and the folks at
Levity
on Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill can help you do just that. In “pods” that hold up to 1000 pounds of dissolved Epsom salt in just 10 inches of water, the body is free to fully float - allowing all muscle groups to relax to the extreme. As the body relaxes, it transitions into sleep stage one, one of the most restful states the body can be in.
Sound
Sound healing (also called sound baths) is another way to float away using a variety of instruments to help your mind and body relax while promoting healing and stress relief. The new
Awareness & Wellness Center
in Shadyside offers sound healing services led by Monique Mead, an internationally acclaimed violinist. In Aspinwall,
Rooted in Sound
offers additional sound healing including sound massage, gong resonance therapy and sound reiki.
Credit
|
Photo Courtesy: AWC Sound Healing
It's no secret that Pittsburgh is a leader in medicine. As technology advances and options expand, it’s hard not to be intrigued by what modern medicine has to offer. But if you look between all the hospitals, Urgent Cares, and doctors’ offices, you can find some pretty cool alternative options that were around long before our steel mills were.
Disclaimer: As always, consult your doctor before trying any new wellness treatments.
Related Blogs
Occult, Metaphysical & Tarot Shops for your Witchy Self
Learn More
Pittsburgh Pampering: Spas and Relaxation Experiences for Everyone
Learn More
Black-owned Businesses in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Author
Asaka N.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map