St. Anthony's Chapel of Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

St. Anthony's Chapel of Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
St. Anthony's Chapel of Pittsburgh
Other than within the consecrated walls of the Vatican in Rome, where will you find such an extensive and well curated collection of venerated Catholic relics? Interestingly, the answer is Pittsburgh.
Amazing in Troy Hill
Simply stepping through the stately doors of
Saint Anthony's Chapel
in Pittsburgh's
Troy Hill neighborhood
you are greeted with the reverent gravity of the preserved history within.
Ornate is an Understatement
From woodwork to statuary and stonework to stained glass, Saint Anthony's earns its historic landmark status in every way. Walking forward down the main isle to the front of the chapel, a communion of saints' artifacts unfold everywhere you look. Reliquaries and sepulcher of saints and Catholic luminary line the walls of this more than century old chapel. Originally built under the direction of
Father Suitbert G. Mollinger
in 1880, the Chapel of St. Anthony's was dedicated during the Feast of Saint Anthony on June 13, 1883.
Since that time, more than five thousand impressively displayed Catholic relics have lined the sanctuary walls from life-sized depictions of the Stations of the Cross, to a first class relic of Saint Anthony and even a thorn from Jesus' Crown of Thorns. Dogma aside, these grand historic artifacts represent an important collection of humanity spanning centuries, continents and personal beliefs.
"Here Lie the Saints in Peace."
This quote, inscribed in Latin above the church's central arch, sums up the experience of visiting Saint Anthony's. There are far too many genuinely priceless artifacts to mention here, so it's well worth making the journey to experience the artifacts in your own way. With informative tours in the welcoming chapel available every day except Friday, Saint Anthony's is a must visit for any fan of religious architecture and the marvels of Catholic history.
Chapel Visiting Hours
Open daily (except Friday) 1-4 PM
Closed on holidays.
Group tours are available and should be arranged in advance by calling the Chapel office 412-323-9504.
Author
Asaka N.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map