Ultimate Guide to PPG Paints Arena | Pittsburgh Penguins, Concerts and More | Visit Pittsburgh

Ultimate Guide to PPG Paints Arena | Pittsburgh Penguins, Concerts and More | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
67
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
A Guide to PPG Paints Arena for Penguins Fans
In town for your first Pens game? We answer all your questions.
No
fall
or
winter
trip to the city is complete without a stop at the gorgeous PPG Paints Arena to check out the five-time Stanley Cup Champions, the Pittsburgh Penguins! The Pens’ consistent success and the arena’s outstanding fan experience combine to make this one of Pittsburgh’s most sought-after tickets. Check out our guide for you to make the most out of your gameday!
Credit
|
Dave DiCello
PPG Paints Arena: Even Better in 2023
The in-game experience is better than ever in PPG Paints Arena's 12 year history, with more than $30 million of improvements on display for the Penguins season. The new scoreboard is 3x the size of the previous one and, combined with a brand new sound system and lighting, will make being at the game an unforgettable experience.
Also new for 2023 is the
Casamigos Club
with private, upscale seating that includes complimentary food stations plus beer and wine for season ticket holders. Individual tickets for the Club can also be purchased on the
Penguins website
.
Credit
|
@redhead15014 on Insta
Getting Tickets
Online
The Pens offer single game and group tickets on their
website
you can also get group tickets or look through the resale market. The Pens also offer a
military and first responder discount.
Student Rush
The Pens’ most popular promotion is the
GetGo Student Rush.
It offers fantastic discounts for college students. All you need to do is download the Penguins App, text RUSH to 412-534-6266, and sign up using your “.edu” email.
Mobile Ticketing
PPG Paints Arena ticketing is mobile-only
. You can download your tickets through the Ticketmaster or Penguins Apps. If you don’t have a mobile phone or your phone is having an issue, you can see guest services inside the Highmark Gate. For more info you can check out the Pens
website
.
Getting to the Game
Public Transportation
Taking the bus to the game from anywhere around the city is the easiest way to go the game. You can check out
bus schedules
or download the Whiz or Transit apps which helps users plan out their bus trips in real time. If you want to take
the T
to the game (Pittsburgh's light rail), the nearest stop is at Steel Plaza, which is less than half a mile from the arena.
Parking Information
There are multiple parking lots and garages surrounding the arena and on Fifth Ave. The Mellon Center garage is also a good option that’s walkable to the arena. You can find more info on the
Pens website
. Make you sure you get to Downtown early!
Pre-game Spots
Souper Bowl
The closest bar to stadium on this list, Souper Bowl run tons of specials around Pens games. Their upstairs is an exciting pre- and post-game spot with tons of fellow fans and a very big beer selection. They won’t mind seeing away team fans, too.
Shale’s Café
Shale’s is also very close to PPG Paints Arena and has turned into a local favorite dive bar. They are known for having a great yet inexpensive food and drink selection, an awesome atmosphere and a lot of free parking. There's no better spot for a pre-game beer.
Moonlit Burgers
New to the area is Moonlit Burgers, the second location of the popular Dormont smashburger shop located right on Duquesne's campus. Don't let the college atmosphere fool you, this colorful spot offers cocktails, drafts and even shots to accompany your bacon double cheeseburger, shoestring fries and pickle brined chicken sandwiches.
Pizza Milano
Also right along the walk to the stadium, Pizza Milano has been the go-to stop before Pens games and other PPG events for years. Chow down on delicious pizzas, mozzarella sticks, gyros and calzones while you enjoy a drink and putting something fun on the jukebox.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by MoonLit Burgers (@moonlitburgers)
What to Eat at the Arena
PPG Paints Arena has a variety of concessions and tons of options including Pittsburgh favorites like Primanti's sandwiches and Quaker Steak wings, along with the usual popcorn, chicken tendies and fries. Here are a couple other options for you to consider:
GetGo, Section 116
GetGo in the arena is modeled like the local favorite convenience store. They have grab-and-go options with lots of drinks and food such as chicken tenders, salads and wraps, mac and cheese bites and so much more!
Milkshake Factory, 107
It’s as good as it sounds. They have the best milkshakes in the arena, including their famous Jake’s Shake. Inspired by fan favorite Jake Guentzel, his shake is chocolate with hot fudge, crushed cookies and brownies and a piece of chocolate in the whip cream.
Burgatory, 206
Burgatory has helluva good burgers, fries and heavenly milkshakes making this an easy one stop shop to load up for the game and not miss a second of the action.
Nakama, 105
While you're on the ice, grab some of the best sushi in Burgh. Just make sure you pay attention to the action so you can use those chopsticks to snag a puck out of the air and then go back to your roll.
Fox’s Pizza, Multiple Locations
Tasty, grab-n-go pizzas that you can find anywhere around the arena.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by MilkShake Factory (@themilkshakefactory)
Cool Stuff for Kids
Walk to the glass to watch warmups
Before the puck drops, it’s very common for people to mingle down by the ice, stand by the glass and try to get a puck or an item signed. There are always plenty of other families, and your chances of getting something from one of the Pens many stars aren’t too bad.
Go see Iceburgh
The Pens mascot, Iceburgh, always walks around during games and is a kid favorite. Get a picture with him! You’re bound to run into him as he dances over or slides into your section throughout the game.
Watch out for the dance cams
Has your kid ever wanted to get on the Jumbotron? This game could be their lucky day, there are always plenty of opportunities for your kids to show their moves at Pens games.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by AntMan (@antman_59_sportscards)
More to Explore
See More Penguins
Can't get enough penguins in your life? Me neither. You can find the Pens' namesake animal at both the
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
and
National Aviary
. In the colder months starting in December, you can see the
Penguins on Parade
walking from the Aquarium and exploring the Zoo. Or, meet a penguin up close at the Aviary with a
Penguin Encounter
giving you a one-of-a-kind photo op or step into their enclosure when you book an
interactive penguin feeding
!
Ride the Incline
Both the
Duquesne and Monongahela Inclines
are Pittsburgh staples with amazing views of Pittsburgh from the Monongahela River. After getting off on the top, take a walk on Mt. Washington to see more angles of our skyline.
Heinz History Center
In a city known for its museums, the
Heinz History Center
is unique for its exhibits on Pittsburgh sports, Mr. Rodgers and the history of our area dating back to the French and Indian War.
See the Strip District
The
Strip District
is one of Pittsburgh’s most iconic neighborhoods and is known for its unique food vendors. It is right next to
Downtown
and one of the best places around the city to walk around.
Let’s Go Pens!
Related Blogs
Insider’s Guide: Senator John Heinz History Center
Learn More
Pittsburgh in Three Hours
Learn More
Top Places to Eat In Downtown Pittsburgh
Learn More
Eating Your Way Through Pittsburgh Sports
Learn More
Outdoor Winter Recreation in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Outdoor and Indoor Ice Rinks in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Author
Jeremy M.
Pitt Grad & VisitPITTSBURGH Contributor
Former VisitPGH intern. Proud yinzer. Pitt grad. Currently pursuing a career in sports business.
Related Content:
Save
Pittsburgh Penguins
1001 Fifth Ave., PPG Paints Arena
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Details
Open in Google Maps
Map
Pittsburgh Penguins
Pittsburgh Penguins
1001 Fifth Ave., PPG Paints Arena
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
(412) 642-7367
Details
Website
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map