#LovePGH Blog | Top Greenspaces and Public Parks in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

#LovePGH Blog | Top Greenspaces and Public Parks in Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Top Green Spaces and Public Parks in Pittsburgh
Your guide to getting outside and enjoying green spaces and public parks in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh seasons are not very defined. Snow can fall in April, and a 90 degree scorcher before
Memorial Day
wouldn’t be out of the question. Native Pittsburghers have grown to accept that decent weather is hard to come by most of the year, and when we are graced with a beautiful day, you never know how long it’ll last. Whether you prefer hot weather, cold weather or some sort of in-between weather, one thing is for sure - when great weather strikes, everyone heads outdoors.
Pittsburgh has been known for many things over the decades, but its ability to offer a bigger city feel among some great outdoor spaces, ranks high on the list. From the suburbs to city, there is no shortage of places to
enjoy the outdoors with your family
. Check out the list below to find a park in your neck of the woods!
Frick Park
: Point Breeze
Situated in the heart of the Point Breeze, Frick Park is known as Pittsburgh’s largest historical regional park. Originally 151 acres, the land was passed on to the city from Henry Clay Frick in 1919. The park officially opened in 1927 after more land was acquired. Now, at 644 acres, Frick Park is Pittsburgh's largest historic regional park. If you are an avid bird watcher, you can enjoy over 100 species of birds in the area. The park also features red clay tennis courts, baseball fields, a dog park, and the only public lawn bowling green in Pennsylvania.
Emerald View Park
: Mount Washington Area
Born out of an effort to combine multiple park spaces on the Mount, Emerald Park was created in 2005. Known for the best place to view the city skyline, Emerald Park is made up of three historic spaces- Grandview, Olympia and Mt Washington. Find picnic areas, ball fields, playgrounds and the best view the city has to offer. It also has a growing hiking and walking trail system with over 10 miles of trails.
August Wilson Park
– Hill District
One of the newest additions to Pittsburgh parks in 2016, August Wilson Park was revived and brought back to life by its own local residents. The park features art inspired by local kids and quotations from August Wilson himself. Among the unique view of the city, you can find pathways to walk and a playground.
Schenley Plaza/Park
- Oakland
Now known as “Oakland’s Green Oasis”, but formerly a parking lot, Schenley Plaza is the Oakland hub for all walks of life. From entertainment programs, to free Wi-Fi, food kiosks and added security, Schenley Plaza attracts more and more visitors every year. Not far the plaza, you’ll find Schenley Park- 456 acres of trails, woods and attractions that are sure to entice anyone to escape the city for an afternoon. Whether you’re taking a dip in the pool or enjoying an afternoon with your dog, Scheneley Park is a one stop shop for all your outdoor adventures.
Highland Park
: Highland Park
Home to Reservoir No. 1 and the Reservoir Loop, Highland Park is a runner’s favorite destination. Along with a scenic loop, Highland Park also has a bike trail, swimming pool and multiple sand volleyball courts. Among the biggest attractions in the area is the
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium.
Related Blogs
Hiking in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Your Guide to Pittsburgh Earth Day
Learn More
Must Visit: Pittsburgh Botanic Garden
Learn More
A Mac Miller Fan’s Guide to Pittsburgh
Learn More
Take a Hush Trip to Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh Pampering: Spas and Relaxation Experiences for Everyone
Learn More
Author
Asaka N.
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map