Explore Pittsburgh's East End! | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh

Explore Pittsburgh's East End! | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Tourism | Visit Pittsburgh | Visit Pittsburgh
Skip to content
Newsletter
Discover Your Persona
62
°
F
0
Saved
Navigation
Things to Do
Free Things to Do
Family Fun
Tours & Sightseeing
Outdoor Adventure
Arts & Culture
Shopping
Health & Wellness
Pittsburgh Sports Teams
Casinos & Gaming
Film Festivals
Events & Festivals
Submit Your Event
This Week in Pittsburgh
Annual Events
Holiday Events
Halloween Events
Film Festivals
Food Festivals
Marathons, Runs & Walks
Pittsburgh Celebrates Juneteenth Freedom Day
Pittsburgh Black Music Festival
Hotels & Resorts
Restaurants & Culinary
Bars & Nightlife
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Wineries & Distilleries
Farms & Farmers Markets
Plan Your Trip
Pittsburgh Insiders Guide
Multi-lingual Brochures
Beyond Pittsburgh
Transportation
Explore Black Culture & Heritage
LGBTQIA+ Travel in Pittsburgh
Pet-friendly Travel
College Visits
Senior Travel
Medical Travel
Accessibility Guide
Weather
Welcome Centers
Newsletter
Neighborhoods
Meetings and Events
Meet in Pittsburgh
Hotels
Event Services
Marketing Toolkit
Group Tour
Submit RFP
Contact Us
Show Your Badge
SportsPITTSBURGH
About SportsPITTSBURGH
Sports Event Planner
Sports Facilities
Calendar of Events
Sports Event Attendee
Power of Sports Economy
Weddings & Reunions
Media
Partners
Discover Your Persona
Home
Explore Pittsburgh's East End!
Explore some of Pittsburgh's East End neighborhoods.
Each one offers its own unique flavor and is easily walkable. Since most neighborhoods are in close proximity to each other, it's easy to explore several in a day, making this a great day or weekend trip.
Morning
Square Cafe. Photo Credit: Yelp User Bill L.
Begin the day in Regent Square, a charming tree-lined community with a small-town-within-a-city feeling. Have breakfast at
Square Cafe
. The pancakes (try the lemon-blueberry) and crepes are very yummy. They also have really good hash. If there's a line to get in - and that's a good sign! - no worries, it moves quickly and the cool vibe of the place and the delicious food are well worth the wait.
Couple Enjoying The Frick Pittsburgh
Head to
Point Breeze
(1.5 miles from Regent Square) where you'll find old-world charm and gracious homes set back along wide streets. Visit
The Frick Pittsburgh
, a complex of museums and historical buildings located on over five acres of lawns and gardens. The Center is devoted to the interpretation of the life and times of industrialist and art collector Henry Clay Frick. Tour Clayton, the Frick family home. It's one of the best preserved Gilded Age mansions in the nation. Also on the grounds is the Art Museum, Car and Carriage Museum, The Greenhouse and The Cafe.
Next stop is
Squirrel Hill
(2 miles from Point Breeze), Pittsburgh's largest neighborhood, which centers around its main business district situated along Forbes and Murray Avenues. Home to a diverse array of casual eateries and small shops, take a walk and duck into some quaint little shops.
Ten Thousand Villages
features handmade gifts, jewelry, home decor, art and sculpture and more, representing the diverse cultures of artisans in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East. Grab some vintage clothing at
Avalon Exchange
. Indulge your sweet tooth at
Gaby et Jules
, a great (but expensive) French pastry shop. Or catch an afternoon flick at
The Manor
, a quaint old movie house showing blockbuster movies and indie films. Read our
blog all about Squirrel Hill
for more ideas of what to do in this neighborhood.
Afternoon
Onward to
Shadyside
, (1.9 miles from Squirrel Hill) an upscale neighborhood filled with stately Victorian mansions and carefully restored homes. At its heart is Walnut Street, dotted with boutiques, shops, cafes and restaurants. Stroll along Walnut Street and duck into the many high end shops and stores. Browse art at
Four Winds Gallery
; pick up something for your home at
Feathers
; treat yourself or a special person with a little bauble at
Alex + Ani
.
La Feria Restaurant and Store. Photo Credit: Lisa S.
For lunch, check out
La Feria
on Walnut Street. It is a unique restaurant serving mainly Peruvian cuisine, and it also has a shop/gallery inside that sells Peruvian clothing and folk art. Love that they combined two of my favorite things - eating and shopping - in one place!
Everyone Enjoys Pittsburgh Zoo and Aquarium!
After Lunch
Just a quick jaunt away is
Highland Park
(1.7 miles from Shadyside). Visit the
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
a 77-acre naturalistic habitat facility that is home to thousands of animals representing hundreds of diverse species. The Zoo is one of only six major zoo and aquarium combinations in the country. Check out the African Savannah, Asian Forest and Water's Edge exhibits. Note: Spend at least two hours at the Zoo for maximum fun!
Lawrenceville city scape
Head to hipster hangout
Lawrenceville
(2.7 miles from Highland Park), one of the hottest neighborhoods in the country right now. Butler Street is the main road that runs through the neighborhood. Both sides of the street are lined with cute shops, trendy boutiques, open-late coffeehouses, restaurants and a few microbreweries. Stop for a beer at
Roundabout Brewery
, a cool, modern little place in Upper Lawrenceville with a nice variety of beers plus growlers to go! In the mood to shop? Head up Butler Street a few blocks to
Von Walter and Funk
for eclectic gifts for home and garden and beautiful vintage paper. Browse for stylish apparel at
Number Fourteen
, a chic little boutique; and get your sparkle on right next door at
Crystal Bead Bazaar
. There's even a bowling alley,
Arsenal Lanes
. It's been around for decades but now it rocks with nightly themed events like "Rock 'n Bowl." Read
our blog all about Lawrenceville
for more ideas of what to do in this neighborhood.
Church Brew Works. Photo Credit: Yelp user Malary J.
Dinner
Hungry after all of that walking and shopping? Head to
Church Brew Works
, a restaurant and brewery housed in an old church. The unique architectural interior is breathtaking and both the food and beer are rich and plentiful. Try the pierogies or the beer battered bison corn dogs. And get the beer sampler so you can pick your favorite brew!
Evening
If you're looking for a nightcap, head further up Liberty Avenue (about 10 blocks) into Bloomfield - Pittsburgh's "Little Italy" where you'll find
Howler's Coyote Cafe
, a cool hangout to hear local and national rock bands five nights a week; and
Nico's Recovery Room
, a great place to watch sports or sing karaoke.
Ritter's Diner Omelette and Home Fries. Photo Credit: Yelp User Larissa G.
Late Night
If you're still not tired after this full day, end the night at
Ritter's Diner
an old-fashioned joint serving around-the-clock omelettes, sandwiches and other diner grub. They're open 24 hours on weekends and are cash only.
What is your favorite thing to do in the East End?
Author
Livia R.
Guest Blogger
Plan Your Trip with the new Pittsburgh Insider's Guide
Learn More
Contact Us
Privacy
Blog
About Us
120 Fifth Avenue
Fifth Avenue Place
Suite 2800
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 281-7711
Toll Free: (877) 568-3744
©️2024 Visit Pittsburgh. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
Experience Builder
Quick Search
Full Search
Location Map