Paul J. Ross Fellowship

Paul J. Ross Fellowship
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Paul J. Ross Fellowship
The Paul J. Ross Fellowship Program is a two-year program designed to
        enable musicians identifying as Black or African American to dedicate
        themselves to the pursuit of an orchestral career. Fellows work closely
        alongside members of the Pittsburgh Symphony to train and prepare for
        professional auditions and opportunities, with substantial financial and
        professional development support, and robust mentorship in a welcoming
        and inclusive environment.
The Paul J. Ross Fellowship is named in honor of the late Paul J. Ross,
        the violinist who, in 1965, was the first African American musician to
        receive a full-time contract from the Pittsburgh Symphony. The legacy of
        Paul J. Ross is notable for nurturing, mentoring, and supporting young
        musicians, and his devotion to sharing his joy of music. Formerly known
        as OTPAAM (Orchestra Training Program for African American Musicians),
        the fellowship program was begun in the 2007-2008 season to promote
        diversity in orchestra settings to better reflect the diverse
        communities and audiences the orchestra serves.
Key components of the Fellowship
The two-year Fellowship begins September 2, 2024 and ends on September
          6, 2026.
Compensation and Benefits:
Minimum annual pay each season is equivalent to 21 weeks at
              orchestra weekly scale; 23-24 season pay is $43,741.32
Single coverage on PSO medical, dental, instrument insurance, life
              and accident insurance plans.
Reimbursement of up to $8,000 per season in audition and
              professional development expenses such as lessons, travel, hotel,
              sheet music, AFM membership, etc.
Allowance for relocation to and from Pittsburgh at start and end
              of Fellowship
Fellows play a minimum of 100 services with the PSO across all program
          types (Grand Classics, Pops, Education, Community Outreach), scheduled
          collaboratively to accommodate auditions and related preparation, as
          well as outside professional opportunities.
Fellows playing more than 112 services receive additional
              compensation at the extra musician rate ($260.37 per service in
              the 2023-2024 season).
Annual pay includes an allowance for dedicated study time.
Fellows have the ability and opportunity to tailor their experience to
          their own specific needs, including:
Mentorship from and mock auditions with members of the PSO
Time on stage at Heinz Hall to take lessons or for personal
              practice
Opportunity to observe PSO member auditions for insight on the
              audition process
Working with the Learning and Community Engagement Department in
              schools, hospitals, and community settings
Consideration for a solo opportunity with the PSO
All applicants will be considered for Pittsburgh Symphony
            substitute musician opportunities
How to Apply
The online application form and full details
may be found here on our Auditions page
. Candidates Invited to in-person final auditions will have their
        audition and travel expenses paid. Application requirements include:
Applicants must be between the ages of 18 and 35 in September 2024.
Completion of a Bachelor’s Degree by September 2024 is
          preferred.
Applicants must be eligible for employment in the United States.
Paul J. Ross Fellows
2024-2025 and 2025-2026 Seasons
Carlos Clark
, is a bassoonist from Belleville, MI.
          Along with being principal bassoon of The Atlanta Opera, Carlos plays
          frequently with orchestras throughout the Midwest and Southeastern
          U.S.
          Mr. Clark studied under William Buchman, Keith Buncke, and Miles Manor
          of the Chicago Symphony. He also earned his bachelor's degree from
          Central Michigan University under MaryBeth Minnis.
Landon Young
Before joining the Pittsburgh Symphony,
          Landon shared his musical talent as a freelance musician in Eastern
          Michigan and the Chicagoland area. He performed as the 4th horn for
          the Adrian Symphony Orchestra and as both Principal and 4th horn for
          the Highland Park Strings Orchestra. Landon's journey has been marked
          by passion and skill, from performances with the Northwestern
          University Symphonic Wind Ensemble to collaborations with Wynton
          Marsalis for the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra for Marsalis’s own
          piece, "All Rise" in 2022 and 2024.
        
          In 2018, Landon established his roots in music education with Adedeji
          Ogunfolu, former Paul J. Ross fellow, current LA recording artist and
          member of the Pacific Symphony. Landon earned a bachelor’s degree from
          the University of Michigan in 2023, studying under Adam Unsworth and
          Brian Kennedy, graduating with highest honors and a minor in German.
          Continuing to grow, Landon is currently pursuing a master’s degree at
          Northwestern University under the tutelage of the legendary Gail
          Williams and Jonathan Boen.
    
          Outside of performing, Landon enjoys watching and practicing
          gymnastics. He also composes music and has contributed to various
          video game soundtracks for developers in the Ann Arbor area.
2023-2024 and 2024-2025 Seasons
Drew Collins
, Drew Collins is currently finishing the
          first year of his Masters in Double Bass Performance at Carnegie
          Mellon University, studying under Micah Howard. Born in Cincinnati,
          Ohio and reared in Columbus, Ohio, Drew began playing double bass in
          fourth grade in elementary school. By the sixth grade, he also joined
          the Columbus Symphony Youth Orchestra and by eighth grade, the Urban
          Strings Columbus Youth Orchestra until he finished high school. Drew
          spent a summer abroad and multiple summers at Interlochen Center for
          the Arts. He attended the Cleveland Institute of Music for his
          undergraduate education, studying under Derek Zadinsky. Drew is a
          passionate electric bass player as well, collaborating with many
          different musicians. He has worked in free improv, jazz, funk, gospel,
          and psychedelic rock.
Joshua Carr
, Joshua Samuel Carr studied trumpet at
          the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and Towson University. While
          studying at Towson University, Mr. Carr won several solo competitions
          and department awards. He has been part of various unique projects;
          from touring the region's historic theaters with the Peacherine
          Ragtime Orchestra accompanying the silent films of Buster Keaton and
          Charlie Chaplin, to opening for the band Reel Big Fish. In San
          Francisco Mr. Carr performed with several orchestras including the
          Symphony Parnassus, the San Francisco Academy Orchestra, and the
          Awesöme Orchestra. In collaboration with Undercover Presents he
          performed a tribute to A Tribe Called Quest’s Midnight Marauders
          as part of the Awesöme Orchestra Collective. Now back on the East
          Coast Mr. Carr has been working with the Lancaster and Mid-Atlantic
          Symphony Orchestras and is a member of the Capital Wind Symphony in
          Washington, DC.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Fellowship Program History
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is a partner orchestra of the National
        Alliance for Audition Support—an unprecedented national initiative
        of The Sphinx Organization, New World Symphony, and the League of
        American Orchestras, to increase diversity in American orchestras. Prior
        Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Fellows have experienced substantial
        career advancement as a result of the fellowship:
2019-2022
Fellow Shantanique Moore, flute, won a
          position as the African American Orchestra Fellow with the Detroit
          Symphony Orchestra for their 2022-23 season. Ms. Moore was named the
          eighth OTPAAM Fellow for the 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 seasons and was
          the first Paul J. Ross Fellow during the 2021-2022 season.
2017-2019
Fellow Joshua Jones, percussion, won a
          position with the Calgary Philharmonic Orchestra as Principal
          Percussion during the first year of the fellowship. He previously
          served as Principal Percussion of the Kansas City Symphony
          and now serves as Principal Percussion of the Grant Park
          Orchestra.
2015-2017
Fellow Torrell Moss, percussion, was
          accepted as an Artist Diploma candidate at Frost School of Music at
          the University of Miami, as a result of his fellowship. Moss has
          recently held positions with the Rainey Institute and Ashland Symphony
          Orchestra in Ohio, and performed in M.U.S.i.C.’s Stars in the
          Classics garden concert in 2020.
2013-2015
Fellow Adedeji Ogunfolu, horn, won a
          position with the San Antonio Symphony during the first year of the
          fellowship. He joined the Pacific Symphony as second horn in 2018, and
          has been appointed as Professor of Horn at the University of
          California, Irvine.
2011-2013
Fellow Ryan Murphy, cello, won a position
          with the San Antonio Symphony in 2012 and is currently in his ninth
          season with the orchestra.
2007-2008
Fellow Geoffrey Johnson, oboe, was the
          Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra’s first OTPAAM Fellow. He won
          acting second oboe of the Detroit Symphony from 2014-2017, and he is
          currently a private lessons teacher and guest oboist in major
          orchestras across the country.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is grateful to the Arts, Equity, &
          Education Fund, and Hans and Leslie Fleischner for major support of
          the Paul J. Ross Fellowship. The Pittsburgh Symphony is grateful to
          the EQT foundation for their support of the Paul J. Ross Fellowship
          Program, and to the following donors for their support of $5,000 or
          more during the 2024/2025 season: Myles & Joan Bradley, The Steven
          Della Rocca Memorial Fund, Gerald Lee Morosco & Paul Ford, Jr., Ms.
          Sandra L. Nicklas, and Connie & Mike Phillips.
The Arts, Equity, & Education Fund and Leslie and the late Hans
          Fleischner also seek to inspire others who believe in the mission of
          the Paul J. Ross Fellowship Program by pledging funds of an additional
          $150,000 to be matched by new and increased gifts to the Pittsburgh
          Symphony specifically for this program over the next four years. If
          successfully matched, the financial need for the program will be
          almost fully met for all four years. Please contact Abby Pittinaro at
APittinaro@pittsburghsymphony.org.
Generous support for the Paul J. Ross Fellowship is also provided by
          the Pennsylvania Department of Education and a grant from the National
          Endowment for the Arts.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.