Accessibility and Information

Accessibility and Information
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Special Facilities and Accessibility
Concierge Service
Patrons attending Pittsburgh Symphony concerts and all other Heinz Hall events can take advantage of our Concierge Service. A Concierge will be on duty in the Entrance vLobby of Heinz Hall at all performances. The Concierge is happy to assist with information about Heinz Hall, the Cultural District and area attractions, while assisting with dining, hotel, entertainment and transportation concerns.
Our concierge is well-versed in the many opportunities available to patrons either visiting or residing in the Pittsburgh area. Concierge Service begins one hour prior to the concert and is available until after the performance. Call (412) 392-2880 during any performance to speak to a concierge.
Accessible Services
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and Heinz Hall are committed to providing an environment that is inclusive and welcoming to all patrons.
Sensory friendly performances
are musical experiences customized especially for patrons with autism spectrum disorders or other disabilities that create sensory sensitivities. Designed in consultation with leading occupational therapy experts, sensory friendly performances provide an opportunity for patrons of all ages to engage in multisensory pre-concert activities and enjoy a symphony concert together with family and friends in a relaxed, inclusive environment.
Click here
to learn more about our sensory friendly initiatives.
For information about our accessible services, please
click here
or contact the box office at 412.392.4900.
Lost and Found
Call (412) 392-4844 from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on weekdays.
Physician's Register Book
Located in the entrance lobby at the Concierge Desk. Refer emergency calls to (412) 392-2880 during performances only. Please turn off beepers and cellular phones during the performance and notify your contact of the emergency number.
Latecomers Gallery
Latecomers will still enjoy the entire concert in the Heinz Hall Latecomers Gallery. There will be no seating during the performance of any piece. Patrons who must leave during a performance will not be re-seated until the completion of the piece. Also, as a courtesy to the performers and fellow concert-goers, we ask that you remain in your seat until the concert has concluded.
Guided Backstage Tours
Guided Backstage Tours are available to groups of eight or more by advance appointment for only $2 per adult; $1 per child, age 14 or younger. To arrange a tour, please contact the Heinz Hall Management Office at (412) 392-4850.
Smoking Policy
Smoking is prohibited in Heinz Hall.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.