Movies with the PSO

Movies with the PSO
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Iconic Films with Live Orchestra
Experience your favorite fims on the big screen with iconic scores performed live by your Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Choose Your Own Movie Bundle
Subscribe and save with our
choose your own movie bundle
. Select 3 or more productions from our film series and save 15% on tickets.
Choose 3 or More to Save 15% →
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix™ in Concert
Saturday, Oct 26 at 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, Oct 27 at 2:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
Experience your favorite movies transformed with the music of a live symphony orchestra in the Harry Potter™ Film Concert Series. For the first time ever, audiences can rediscover the magic of
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
™ while a live symphony orchestra performs Nicholas Hooper’s unforgettable score and Harry Potter™ soars across the big screen in high-definition.
WIZARDING WORLD and all related trademarks, characters, names, and indicia are © & ™ Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Publishing Rights © JKR.
Home Alone
Friday, Nov 22 at 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, Nov 24 at 2:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
A true holiday favorite, this beloved comedy classic features John Williams' charming and delightful score performed live to picture by the PSO. Kevin McCallister (Macaulay Culkin) is an 8-year-old boy who's accidentally left behind when his family leaves for Christmas vacation, and who must defend his home against two bungling thieves. Hilarious and heart-warming, Home Alone is holiday fun for the entire family! (PG)
© 1990 Twentieth Century Fox
Love Actually
Thursday, Dec 19 at 7:00 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
Funny, irresistible, and heart-warming,
Love Actually
is set in contemporary London in the weeks before Christmas and tells one story that weaves together a spectacular amount of love stories—sometimes romantic, sometimes sad, sometimes stupid—all funny in their own way. Don’t miss the twentieth anniversary of this holiday classic. (R)
Love Actually
is a copyright of WT Venture LLC. Licensed by Universal Studios. All Rights Reserved.
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope
Friday, Feb 7 at 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, Feb 8 at 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, Feb 9 at 2:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
2018 & TM LUCASFILM LTD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED © DISNEY
Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring in Concert
Friday, Jun 27 at 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, Jun 28 at 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, Jun 29 at 2:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
The epic film on the big screen with the original score performed live!
You May Also Like...
PSO Disrupt Series
Saturday, Nov 16 at 7:30 p.m.
Saturday, March 8 at 7:30 p.m.
Saturday, April 12 at 7:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
It’s time to rewrite the rules of the symphony. Get ready to shatter expectations at Heinz Hall with PSO Disrupt. Wear what you want. Clap when you want. Ignite your senses. Be transported.
Holiday Brass Spectacular
Tuesday, Dec 17 at 7:00 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
The virtuosic brass section of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is renowned for its brilliance, refinement and incredible power. Join us for this annual, festive holiday tradition with our special Holiday Brass Spectacular! From traditional Baroque favorites to new arrangements of your most-loved holiday tunes, this evening, perfect for the whole family, is sure to usher in the merry season!
One Piece
Saturday , Jan 25 at 7:30 p.m.
Sunday, Jan 26 at 2:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
The most memorable moments of the beloved TV series will be projected on a giant screen to the sound of a 50-musician orchestra! It is time for an epic array of music full of action and emotion! Immerse yourself in the magic of a full orchestra as it performs One Piece’s iconic music live on stage, while the greatest moments from the anime come to life on screen in perfect sync. Relive the thrilling adventures of the Straw Hat Crew, all set to the vibrant sounds of the series’ most memorable music! Join us for a special anniversary world tour that showcases a brand-new program from the world of One Piece. Experience the highlights from 25 years of adventures, including unforgettable moments with the entire Straw Hat Crew, all presented in a film concert with a giant screen projection! The music program of the One Piece Music Symphony will feature fan favorite songs like “We Are!,” “Sai sai saikyo!!!,” “Oitsumerareta,” and “Binks no Sake”, along with some new pieces specifically made for this anniversary celebration.
Pixar in Concert
Saturday , Feb 28 at 7:30 p.m.
Sunday, Mar 1 at 7:30 p.m.
Sunday, Mar 2 at 2:30 p.m.
Tickets start at $25 →
Step into the enchanting world of Pixar magic as the Pittsburgh Symphony performs iconic film scores including Toy Story, Coco, Ratatouille, Cars, and many more, blending live music with cinematic visuals for a celebration that captures the hearts of children and adults alike.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.