Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Announces Summer with the Symphony 2024

Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Announces Summer with the Symphony 2024
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ANNOUNCES SUMMER WITH THE SYMPHONY 2024
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 3, 2024
Media Contacts:
Keene Carter, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra,
kcarter@pittsburghsymphony.org
Cally Jamis Vennare, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra,
cvennare@pittsburghsymphony.org
DIGITAL ASSETS →
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ANNOUNCES SUMMER WITH THE SYMPHONY 2024
Concerts Include Free Community Performances, Summer Shorts at O’Reilly Theater, Star Wars: The Force Awakens in Concert, and Fiddlesticks in Your Neighborhood
PITTSBURGH, PA
—
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)
announces its
Summer with the Symphony
programming for the 23-24 season, which includes the continuation of its
Summer Shorts
series at the O’Reilly Theater,
Fiddlesticks in Your Neighborhood
at Moon and Mars high schools,
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
in Concert
, and
free community concerts
. These join the PSO’s existing summer lineup of
Cody Fry Live with the PSO
and
A Night at the Symphony with Laufey
. The orchestra will also perform on Dollar Bank Main Stage at the
Three Rivers Arts Festival
on June 3. More summer concerts are still to be announced.
Tickets to
Star Wars: the Force Awakens in Concert
and Summer Shorts:
La Dolce Vita
are now on presale to subscribers and donors, and will be on sale to the public on Monday, April 8 at pittsburghsymphony.org, by calling (412) 492-4900, or in person at the Heinz Hall Box Office.
“This summer’s concerts are geared toward music lovers of all ages, from those who’ve discovered Cody Fry and Laufey through TikTok to families attending Fiddlesticks and Star Wars to the soldiers and veterans we honor at our Americana Concert,” said
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra President & CEO Melia Tourangeau
. “Throughout the year, PSO enriches every life with great music through unparalleled experiences, community collaborations, and educational programming. There is a seat for everyone at a PSO concert — whether you experience live music in Heinz Hall, at the Three Rivers Arts Festival, or in your neighborhood — and a ticket price for every budget. Please join us this summer!”
A NIGHT AT THE SYMPHONY WITH LAUFEY (SOLD OUT)
Raised in D.C. and Reykjavik, with Icelandic and Chinese roots, Laufey's classical piano and cello training from her mother collided with her love for her father's jazz records. Her 2022 album, described by
NME
as "candid self-expression wrapped in the dreamy lilt of the old jazz standards," foreshadows her captivating debut with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. She weaves her unique storytelling and spellbinding voice with influences from Ravel, Chopin, Ella Fitzgerald, and Billie Holiday.
A Night at the Symphony with Laufey
Monday, June 24, 2024, 7:30pm at Heinz Hall
Tuesday, June 25, 2024, 7:30pm at Heinz Hall
Moon Doh, conductor
Laufey
AMERICANA CONCERT
Join the Pittsburgh Symphony for its annual Americana Concert centered around American music in tribute to our military personnel and veterans. Featuring music from
The Patriot
by John Williams, George Gershwin’s
Porgy and Bess
, Leonard Bernstein’s
West Side Story
, and the songs of the armed forces, this star-spangled program, led by Associate Conductor Jacob Joyce with Katy Williams as vocalist, is performed in Oakland’s Soldier’s & Sailors Memorial Hall and is free to the public, though registration is required.
Americana Concert
Friday, June 28, 2024, 7:00pm at Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall & Museum
Jacob Joyce, conductor
Katy Williams, vocalist
John Stafford Smith
The Star-Spangled Banner
John Williams
The Patriot
William Grant Still
Symphony No. 1, "Afro-American," — III. Animato
Gabriela Lena Frank
The Mestizo Waltz
from Three Latin American Dances
John Williams
Liberty Fanfare
George Gershwin
Selections from
Porgy and Bess
Leonard Bernstein
Overture to
West Side Story
Samuel Ward
America the Beautiful
Bob Lowden
Armed Forces Salute
Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
Finale from
1812, Overture solennelle
John Philip Sousa
Stars and Stripes Forever
CODY FRY LIVE WITH THE PSO
The GRAMMY-nominated singer, composer, multi-instrumentalist, and bona fide TikTok star makes music that sounds like the new Golden Age of orchestral pop. In his Heinz Hall debut with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, he brings the perfect blend of velvet-tone vocals and instrumental shades erupting in full-blown Technicolor.
Cody Fry Live with the PSO
Wednesday, July 10, 2024, 7:30pm at Heinz Hall
Moon Doh, conductor
Cody Fry
STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS IN CONCERT
Since the release of the first
Star Wars
movie over 45 years ago, the
Star Wars
saga has had a seismic impact on both cinema and culture, inspiring audiences around the world with its mythic storytelling, captivating characters, groundbreaking special effects and iconic musical scores.
The GRAMMY®-winning soundtrack by legendary composer John Williams will be performed alongside the Oscar®-nominated film to thrilling effect in a live concert experience.
The presentation is licensed by Disney Concerts.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens in Concert
Saturday, July 13, 2024, 7:00pm at Heinz Hall
Sunday, July 14, 2024, 2:30pm at Heinz Hall
Jacob Joyce, conductor
SUMMER SHORTS: LA DOLCE VITA
The Pittsburgh Symphony is crossing Penn Avenue again to play in the O’Reilly Theater and continue last year’s inaugural Summer Shorts series. This brisk, Italian program features a bouquet of Italian favorites in works by Rossini and Marianna Martines, plus Mendelssohn’s “Italian” Symphony, and a rare treat in the PSO concerto debut of Principal Bass Nicholas Myers in Bottesini’s virtuosic Bass Concerto #2. Associate Conductor Jacob Joyce leads the orchestra from the playful overture to
The Italian Girl in Algiers
to the light and flying strings that begin Mendelssohn’s fourth symphony for a Summer Short that evokes the sweet life.
Summer Shorts: La Dolce Vita
Thursday, July 18, 2024, 7:00pm at the O’Reilly Theater
Jacob Joyce, conductor
Nicholas Myers, contrabass
Gioachino Rossini
Overture to
The Italian Girl in Algiers
Marianna Martines
Sinfonia in C major
Giovanni Bottesini
Concerto No. 2 in B minor for Bass
Felix Mendelssohn
Symphony No. 4 in A major, Opus 90, “Italian”
FIDDLESTICKS IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra returns to Moon Area and Mars Area High Schools in July for a summer adventure with Fiddlesticks, the PSO’s seven-foot, cuddly feline ambassador. Led by PSO Associate Conductor Jacob Joyce, Fiddlesticks and vocalist Katy Williams will explore Fiddlesticks’ favorite summer activities through music, movement, singing, and imagination. Musical highlights will include the Fiddlesticks Theme Song, “Music Can Make Your Life Complete” by Lucas Richman,
Thunder and Lightning
Polka, “Pure Imagination” from
Willy Wonka and The Chocolate Factory
, “Hoedown” from Aaron Copland’s
Rodeo
, and more.  A family fun adventure for all, join Fiddlesticks and make some musical memories this summer.
Fiddlesticks’ Summer Adventure
Saturday, July 20, 2024, 11:15am at Moon Senior High
Sunday, July 21, 2024, 2:30pm at Mars Area Senior High School
Jacob Joyce, conductor
Katy Williams, vocalist
Fiddlesticks
WITH GRATITUDE
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is grateful for overall support provided by local and state government entities:
the Allegheny Regional Asset District, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Community and Economic Development,
and the
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts
, a state agency funded by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Pittsburgh Brewing Company
is the Presenting Sponsor of 2024’s Americana Concert.
Fiddlesticks concerts are endowed by
Gerald and Audrey McGinnis
, honoring the Center for Young Musicians.
Diehl Automotive Group
is the official auto dealer of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Fairmont Pittsburgh
is the official hotel of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Delta Air Lines
is the official airline of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
WQED 89.3 FM
is the official media sponsor of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
ABOUT THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Now in its 128th season, the internationally acclaimed
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)
engages audiences of all ages through unparalleled live musical experiences, community collaborations, and educational programming that enrich every life with great music.
The GRAMMY® Award-winning symphony has been led by worldwide acclaimed
Music Director Manfred Honeck
since 2008. Past music directors have included many of the greats, including Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, André Previn, Lorin Maazel, and Mariss Jansons. The Pittsburgh Symphony has a long and illustrious history in the areas of recordings and live radio broadcasts dating back to the 1930s. Lauded as the Pittsburgh region’s international cultural ambassador, the orchestra began touring in 1896 and has embarked on scores of domestic and international tours. Heinz Hall, PSO’s home located at 600 Penn Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh, is also owned and operated by the Pittsburgh Symphony. Follow the Pittsburgh Symphony online at
pittsburghsymphony.org
, on
Facebook
, on
Instagram
, and on
YouTube
.
ABOUT PSO'S POPULAR PROGRAMMING
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra’s history with popular programming goes back to its early days with Victor Herbert. In the following decades, Pops performances were often billed as “light programs and popular soloists,” with guest conductors and stars of the era such as Benny Goodman, Henry Mancini, Ethel Merman, Phyllis Diller, and Doc Severinsen. With the advent of the Marvin Hamlisch era, the venerable Pops series was infused with a new injection of excitement and “razzle-dazzle” as he welcomed memorable programs like “Love Nights” and “Prom Nights,” and stars like Bernadette Peters. With the unexpected passing of Hamlisch in 2012, the symphony’s Pops programming continued under the baton of leading guest conductors, welcoming star guest artists like Chris Botti.
In 2020, Pittsburgh Symphony appointed
Byron Stripling
as
Principal Conductor for PNC Pops
. Under Stripling’s leadership, PNC Pops brings fresh vitality and relevance to orchestral music through contemporary artist collaborations, new arrangements of classic tunes, and films with live orchestra — introducing legions of new fans to the PSO and Heinz Hall each season.
ABOUT DISNEY CONCERTS
Disney Concerts is the concert production and licensing division of Disney Music Group, the music arm of The Walt Disney Company.  Disney Concerts produces concerts and tours, and licenses Disney music and visual content to symphony orchestras, choruses and presenters on a worldwide basis. Disney Concerts’ concert packages include a variety of formats, such as “live to picture” film concerts, and themed instrumental and vocal compilation concerts that range from instrumental-only symphonic performances to multimedia productions featuring live vocalists and choirs.  Featuring concerts from the largest movie franchises in the world – from Walt Disney Pictures, Walt Disney Animation Studios, Marvel Studios, Lucasfilm, Pixar and 20th Century Studios – current titles include the
Star Wars
Film Concert Series,
Toy Story
,
Aladdin
,
Disney Princess – The Concert
,
Coco
,
The Lion King
,
Up
,
Disney Tim Burton’s The Nightmare Before Christmas
and
The Muppet Christmas Carol
.
Press Room
News
2018 Grammys
Press Releases
2023-2024
2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.