Lauver Robert

Lauver Robert
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Robert Lauver
Horn
Robert Lauver has been a member of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and its wonderful horn section since 2000. He has also been a member of the St. Louis, Columbus, Alabama and Austin Symphony Orchestras.
Robert Lauver's education started in Kalamazoo, Michigan, where he studied with Neill Sanders, second hornist to Dennis Brain and recording artist with the Beatles. His studies continued at the Peabody Conservatory and Northwestern University.
Robert Lauver has been a soloist with the St. Louis Symphony, and with the Pittsburgh Symphony several times, performing Schumann's Konzertstück on three separate subscription concert series. He also performed Mozart's Horn Concerto No. 3 as soloist with the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Robert Lauver’s teaching spans more than 30 years in Texas, St. Louis at Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville, the University of Missouri at St. Louis (UMSL), Carnegie Mellon University and West Virginia University. He has been on the faculty of the Barry Tuckwell Institute for six summers teaching, performing alongside the legendary soloist, as well as many of the country's finest teachers and performers. He loves teaching high school horn students and is a brass coach for the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra.
In the summers, Robert Lauver performs with the Grand Teton Music Festival, which attracts musicians from the greatest orchestras in the United States and abroad. He loves returning there with his wife and three grown children to enjoy the amazing scenery, and to go hiking and backpacking.
Robert Lauver considers life in Pittsburgh with the Symphony and his lovely family a dream gig, and he is continually amazed when he pinches himself and realizes again and again he's still awake!
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.