Moore John

Moore John
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
John Moore
Bass
John Moore became a member of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 1996, hired by Music Director Lorin Maazel.
Prior to joining the Pittsburgh Symphony, Moore held the title of associate principal bass with the Honolulu Symphony from 1989 to 1991, then was a member of the San Diego Symphony and principal bass of the San Diego Chamber Orchestra from 1991 to 1996. Moore moved to the East Coast in 1996, where he was awarded the position of principal bass of the Columbus Symphony.
John Moore won first place in the La Jolla Symphony Solo Competition in 1993 performing the Koussevitsky double bass concerto.  He has performed with numerous music festivals including the National Repertory Orchestra, the Tanglewood Music Festival, Shleswig-Holstein Musik Festival, the Colorado Music Festival, Strings in the Mountains and the Grand Teton Music Festival. Moore has also served as a lecturer at the University of Hawaii in 1991, and as an interim double bass professor at Penn State University in 2008.
John Moore has performed extensively as a soloist and as a chamber musician in and around Pittsburgh since 1996. In recent years  he has been involved with early music and has performed occasionally with Pittsburgh's Chatham Baroque, appearing in Chatham's December 2013 performances of J.S. Bach's Brandenburg Concertos.
John Moore earned his Bachelor of Music degree at the Curtis Institute of Music in 1988, studying the double bass with Philadelphia Orchestra Principal Roger Scott.  He continued his studies with Lawrence Wolfe at the New England Conservatory in 1988.
John Moore is married to Susanne Park, a member of the Pittsburgh Symphony's first violin section. They live in Lawrenceville with their son, Oliver. Moore plays on a two-hundred-year-old English bass made by Jon Betts.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.