Digital Schooltime

Digital Schooltime
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Digital Schooltime
Bring the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra to your classroom! Digital Schooltime is free for educators and includes options for every grade level. Each Digital Schooltime unit includes a full concert video and additional learning resources developed by the PSO Learning & Engagement team, all available online. Registration is required.
How do instruments make sound?
Explore how sound is created with PSO Associate Conductor Jacob Joyce and the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra! You will learn how each instrument family creates its unique sound, how those sounds work together in an orchestra, and what role the conductor plays in bringing orchestral music to life.
Register Here →
Where did jazz come from?
Make your way back to the American spirituals that served as the foundation of what we now call Jazz. How can music convey longing or joy? What does rhythm have to do with feeling? How does a melody change when it’s repeated? PNC Principal Pops Conductor Byron Stripling will lead you through these and other questions to answer, “what makes jazz?”
Register Here →
What makes jazz unique?
Join Byron Stripling, PSO's Principal Pops Conductor, through a survey of jazz music and beyond, including introductions to the ragtime, blues and swing genres. George Gershwin, Jelly Roll Morton, Billy Strayhorn and other greats will be your guides through an exploration of one of America’s greatest contributions to music.
Register Here →
How can music express our understanding of the world?
From Igbo cosmology to Mayan, Judeo-Christian and Greek creation stories, explore how composers use the infinite variety of an orchestra to illustrate beliefs about the origins of our world. Then reflect on your own origin story: who are you, and who do you want to be?
Register Here →
How can music bring people together?
Join the Pittsburgh Symphony for one of its annual celebrations of Black American music featuring the Lift Every Voice Unity Choir drawn from gospel choirs in Pittsburgh and led by Nikki Porter. With music by Valerie Coleman, Jessie Montgomery, Kurt Carr and many others, Lift Every Voice honors the spirit and traditions of Black American music.
Register Here →
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.