Group Sales

Group Sales
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Group Sales
Make a musical memory with your group at Heinz Hall
For most Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performances, groups of 10 or more may receive discounts from 10% to 25% off regular ticket prices. Other benefits group patrons may receive are personalized service, payment plan options and free room rental with a group purchase. Please notify upon booking if you'd like to take advantage of that opportunity.
Heinz Hall is great for your next gathering. Social clubs, companies, teams, wedding parties, church groups and other organizations of all shapes and sizes have come from around the world to celebrate with an evening of listening to the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
FAQ
What is the minimum number to receive the group discount?
To receive the group discount, you must have a group of 10 or more for any BNY Classics, PNC Pops, Highmark Holiday Pops, Fiddlesticks Family Concerts or PSO Disrupt performances.*
Where will I pick up my tickets?
Either your tickets will be mailed directly to you or held at the box office.
When is final payment due?
Final payment is due one month prior to the concert date. If the performance is within one month, please contact us for special arrangements. Once the final payment has been received, there are no refunds or exchanges.
Can I change my order?
Yes! Group orders can be adjusted until the time of final payment. Once the final payment has been received, there are no refunds or exchanges.
Can my group sit together?
We make every effort to seat all the members of your group together. Unfortunately, this is not always possible. In general, the earlier you make your reservation, the more likely that we can accommodate your seating requests. Also, you are welcome to order tickets with different locations/pricing within the same group order.
When can I make my reservation?
As soon as you pick your date! Advance ordering is the key to getting good seats. To order your tickets, please call 412.392.4900 or email
group_sales@pittsburghsymphony.org
.  All you need is the date of the event, approximately how many tickets you'd like, and your preferred seating section.
Do I have to purchase a ticket for my child?
Yes, you must purchase a ticket for your child. Children must be at least 6 years old to attend any symphony performance, with the exception of our Fiddlesticks concerts.
*Subject to availability.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.