Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Launches PSO Go Student Initiative to Bring Classical Music to the Next Generation

Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Launches PSO Go Student Initiative to Bring Classical Music to the Next Generation
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 9, 2024
Contact:
Saul Markowitz, Markowitz Communications,
412-977-8517
/
Saul@MarkowitzCommunications.com
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LAUNCHES
PSO GO
STUDENT INITIATIVE TO BRING CLASSICAL MUSIC TO THE NEXT GENERATION
PITTSBURGH, PA
—World-renowned for excellence in musical performance, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO) is proud to announce the launch of
PSO Go
– a new student ticket program. Starting this Fall, full-time high school, college, graduate/post-graduate students, and pre-K through 12th grade public, private and charter school teachers will have access to discounted prices for most PSO performances at Heinz Hall via the PSO Go initiative.
PSO Go continues and expands our institutional commitment to increasing access to classical music and bringing the joy of classical performance to broad and diverse audiences. As many schools cut back on music education, we see this as an essential moment to ensure students have the opportunity to experience world-class classical music performances. PSO Go offers discounted tickets and season passes tailored to the needs of students and teachers and will foster a community of young listeners and learners who will be the future audiences and supporters of classical music.
“We are excited to welcome young and first-time listeners who will become the heart of our audiences in the years to come. We take pride in the PSO’s role as a catalyst for learning development, and we look forward to partnering with our region’s teachers as we support and inspire the next generation of classical music lovers and, hopefully, orchestra members,” says Melia P. Tourangeau, President & CEO.
There are two ways for students and teachers to experience all the PSO has to offer with this program:
PSO Go Advantage:
Available now
Student Single Ticket
: $15
Membership in PSO Go Advantage is free! Simply sign up at
www.pittsburghsymphony.org/psogo
using your student email address. Once you’ve registered, enjoy $15 tickets for any BNY Classics, Disrupt, or PNC Pops performance. You’ll receive a text on the Monday prior to the concert when tickets become available. Log on, choose your seat within selected seating sections and bring a friend for an additional $15!
Teacher Single Ticket (Pre K – 12th grade)
: $20
Teachers can enjoy the same benefits as students with PSO Go Advantage Teachers. Join our program for free at
www.pittsburghsymphony.org/psogo
using your school email address and enjoy $20 tickets for any BNY Classics, Disrupt, or PNC Pops performances. You’ll receive a text on the Monday prior to the concert when tickets become available. Log on, choose your seat within selected seating sections and bring a friend for an additional $20!
PSO Go Pass:
Available October 1st
Student Annual Pass
:
$50
Unlimited concerts for just $50! Attend as many BNY Classics, Disrupt, or PNC Pops performances as often as you’d like for just $50. And bring a friend for just $15! You’ll receive a text as tickets become available; simply log in and select your concerts and seats.
Teacher Annual Pass
: (
Pre-K – 12th grade): $100
Unlimited concerts for just $100! Teachers can take advantage of an annual PSO Go Pass too! Educators can purchase a $100 annual pass and get access to tickets for BNY Classics, Disrupt, or PNC Pops performances as often as you’d like. Plus, purchase an additional ticket for just $20! You’ll receive a text as tickets become available; simply log in and select your concerts and seats.
ABOUT THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Now in its 129th season, the internationally acclaimed
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)
engages audiences of all ages through unparalleled live musical experiences, community collaborations, and educational programming that enrich every life with great music.
The GRAMMY® Award-winning symphony has been led by globally acclaimed
Music Director Manfred Honeck
since 2008. Past music directors have included many of the greats, including Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, André Previn, Lorin Maazel, and Mariss Jansons.
The Pittsburgh Symphony has a long and illustrious history in the areas of recordings and live radio broadcasts dating back to the 1930s. Lauded as the Pittsburgh region’s international cultural ambassador, the orchestra began touring in 1896 and has embarked on scores of domestic and international tours. Heinz Hall, PSO’s home located at 600 Penn Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh, is also owned and operated by the Pittsburgh Symphony. Follow the Pittsburgh Symphony online at
pittsburghsymphony.org
, on
Facebook
, on
Instagram
, and on
YouTube
.
# # #
Press Room
News
2018 Grammys
Press Releases
2023-2024
2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.