Ostinato

Ostinato
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
noun/adjective: A continuously repeated melodic or rhythmical figure or phrase
donation: A monthly gift to the Pittsburgh Symphony to support Great Music in Every Life
The
Ostinato Club
is the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra’s monthly giving program. Previously known as Music by the Month, the Ostinato Club launches Fall 2023 with a new user-friendly donation platform and special benefits for donors.
What is an ostinato?
According to the
Oxford English Dictionary
, an ostinato is
a continuously repeated melodic or rhythmical figure or phrase.
There are many musical examples of ostinati that you are probably familiar with by Gustav Holst, Maurice Ravel, Hans Zimmer, the White Stripes, and even AC/DC. You can learn more and listen to famous ostinati
here.
Why should I join the Ostinato Club?
Philanthropic support is key to maintaining the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and to our ongoing transformation into a premier American orchestra for the 21st century.
Ticket sales cover just a small portion of the Symphony’s salaries and expenses.
As an Ostinato Club donor your monthly gift has an immediate impact on the orchestra’s programs, people, and thousands of your fellow Pittsburghers. plus...
We’ll send you fewer letters
You’ll receive an automatic email receipt for every donation, and a summary letter from the Symphony every January of your yearly support
Immediate eligibility for our
donor benefits
upon your first monthly gift
Special invitations to exclusive donor events
How do I sign up?
Click here to visit our Ostinato signup form - no username or password required
Click the Recurring tab and select Monthly
Choose one of the standard amounts or select your own monthly amount
Complete the remainder of the form with your credit or debit card – this is the card that will be charged monthly on the date you sign up (e.g. if you sign up on September 3rd, your card will be charged the 3rd of the month)
Click Donate Now
Check your email for a thank you message.
Keep this message
as it retains an easy login link to update your credit card, change your monthly giving amount, or discontinue your monthly gift.
FAQ
What does my Ostinato Club donation support?
Ostinato Club donations support the Symphony’s Annual Fund, which alongside ticket sales and the Endowment fund the organization’s annual operations
How do I change my credit or debit card number or expiration date?
Click on the link in your confirmation email to access your donation portal.
Login using a one time password sent to your email account.
Once logged in, you can add a new card, update your current card, or delete a card
How do I change my donation amount?
Login to your donation portal as described above
Delete your current monthly donation
Create a new monthly donation with your new amount using the instructions earlier on this page
How do I cancel my monthly donation?
Login to your donation portal as described above
Delete your current monthly donation
My donation portal isn’t functioning or I need assistance
No problem-give us a call at 412.392.4880 or or email us at
pso_development@pittsburghsymphiony.org
and we'll be happy to help you.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.