Howard Micah

Howard Micah
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Micah Howard
Bass
Stephen & Kimberly Keen Chair
Micah Howard enjoys an enriching career as both a performer and a teacher. He joined the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 1996 at the age of 25. As a Pittsburgh Symphony member, he has toured five continents, including Europe, Asia, Australia, South America and North America. Howard regularly performs as a recitalist and chamber musician. He has also been featured as a soloist with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Micah Howard has always been active as a music educator. In addition to private teaching, he regularly serves as a lecturer for various universities, coaches youth ensembles, such as the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra and the Youngstown Youth Symphony Orchestra, and in collaboration with the Pittsburgh Symphony's outreach program, visits local grade schools and high schools to coach ensembles and promote music education. Howard also served on the board of directors of the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra for many years. He taught string bass as adjunct faculty at the Dana School of Music, Youngstown State University from 2000 to 2006, and Duquesne University from 2006 to 2014. Howard currently serves as Assistant Teaching Professor of Double Bass at Carnegie Mellon University. In 2010 Howard received the award for Outstanding String Teacher by the Pennsylvania-Delaware String Teachers Association for his outstanding achievement as a string teacher and his contributions to the string profession.
As a member of the Pittsburgh Symphony, MIcah Howard has served on several committees. He was most notably a member of the core audition committee for five years, serving as chair for two of those years. While on this committee, he played a role in hiring more than twenty full-time and substitute members of the orchestra. He was also involved in creating a new process instituted in 2005 to hire new musicians. He has also served as a member of the Orchestra and Artistic Committees.
Micah Howard is also very active as a member of the double bass community. He has organized several double bass symposiums in Youngstown, Ohio, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. These symposiums bring together prominent bassists from around the country to perform recitals, serve as lecturers, and give master classes. He has also served as a contributing writer for Bass World Magazine.
Micah Howard received his Bachelor of Music degree from Youngstown State University and his Master of Music degree from Duquesne University School of Music. His teachers include Tony Leonardi, Rodney Van Sickle, Edward Pales, Peter Paul Adamiac and Jeffrey Turner. In 1995 he took first place in the International Society of Bassists Orchestral Competition.
YouTube
|
Website
|
Facebook
|
Twitter
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.