Print At Home

Print At Home
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Print At Home: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Print At Home is the most convenient way of receiving your tickets. Not only will you get your tickets right away, but you can print them out any time before the event. No more waiting for mail delivery or in will call lines for tickets. Get to the venue, present your Print At Home ticket and enjoy the show.
How does Print At Home work?
It's fast, simple and convenient! Here's how it works:
→ Select
Choose
Print At Home
as your delivery method.
→ Buy
Purchase your ticket(s).
→ Print
From Your Order Confirmation Screen:
Once your order is submitted, a "Print Tickets" button will display on your order confirmation page. Click the "Print Tickets" button and a new window will open up. Print your tickets and enjoy the show!
From Your Order Confirmation Email:
Click on the visit
your profile
link in the email. For security purposes, you will be prompted to login to your account. Once you login, click on "Purchase History" and click on your order number. A summary of your order with a "Print Tickets" button will display. Click the "Print Tickets" button and a new window will open up. Print your tickets and enjoy the show!
From Any Cultural District Website:
Click on the visit
your profile
link in the header. For security purposes, you will be prompted to login to your account. Once you login, click on "Purchase History" and click on your order number. A summary of your order with a "Print Tickets" button will display. Click the "Print Tickets" button and a new window will open up. Print your tickets and enjoy the show!
How do I print my tickets from the Order Confirmation Screen?
Once your order is submitted, a "Print Tickets" button will display on your order confirmation page. Click the "Print Tickets" button and a new window will open up with your tickets. Print your tickets and enjoy the show!.
How do I print my tickets from my profile?
Step 1:
For security purposes, you must
login to your account
to print tickets.
Step 2:
Once you login, click on "Purchase History" and click on your order number. A summary of your order with a "Print Tickets" button will display
Step 3:
Click the "Print Tickets" button and a new window will open up. Print your tickets and enjoy the show!
What if I still cannot print my tickets?
Try the following: If you have a problem or a question not answered on this page, please
contact us
.
Make sure your printer is on and the cables are connected to your computer.
Make sure your computer has enough memory available; try closing any unnecessary programs.
Still unable to print?
Contact us
for help.
Do I need any special hardware or software to use Print At Home?
You probably already have everything you need. All you need is a Printer - Any ink-jet or laser printer (color or black & white) with a resolution of 300 dpi or more is able to print tickets. Use 8.5" x 11" size plain white paper for best results. (If you're unsure of your printer's resolution/dpi, check the printer manual.) You do not need any special software to print tickets.
Will this ticket be accepted for entry into the event?
Yes! The ticket that is printed through your printer is a valid, legitimate ticket. Make sure you keep it in a safe place like you would cash, and protect it just like you would any other ticket!
What if I print more than one copy of my ticket or a photocopy is made?
Only the first scan of the barcode on your ticket will be allowed entry.
Make sure you keep the printed ticket in a safe place like you would cash, and protect it just like you would any other ticket! If more than one copy were to arrive, the barcode scanner will alert the usher that the ticket has already been scanned. If there is a dispute, the purchaser's name and the last four-digits of the credit card are used to determine the owner of the ticket.
Can I bring my Print At Home ticket to the event on my smartphone?
Not at this time.
Although your iPhone or Android may be capable of displaying your Print At Home ticket, our scanners may not read the barcodes properly. In the future we may support this, but for now, please bring a printed ticket to the performance.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.