Mossburg Aaron

Mossburg Aaron
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Aaron Mossburg
Viola
Aaron Mossburg, violist, has been recognized for his “exceptionally warm sound,” Sarasota Herald-Tribune, and a “solo that was absolutely stunning,”
Cleveland Classical
.
Aaron holds a Bachelor of Music degree from the Oberlin Conservatory of Music, where he studied with Division of Strings Director, Peter Slowik, as well as a Master of Music degree from the Cleveland Institute of Music with Robert Vernon, Principal Emeritus of The Cleveland Orchestra. Aaron has studied and performed at music festivals across the world, including The Perlman Music Program (New York), Verbier Festival Orchestras (Switzerland), Pacific Music Festival (Japan), Kneisel Hall (Maine), and the Sarasota Music Festival (Florida).
In 2011, Aaron gave his solo Carnegie Hall debut in which he was invited and sponsored by the Netherlands American Community Trust. Shortly thereafter, he received top honors in the senior divisions of both the American String Teachers Association's (ASTA) National Solo Competition in New York City and the Ohio Viola Society Solo Competition.
Mr. Mossburg has had the opportunity to perform chamber music and orchestra concerts all around the globe in such places as the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C., Lincoln Center in New York City, Shanghai, Beijing, Singapore, and the Dominican Republic. He has performed chamber music with Itzhak Perlman, Donald Weilerstein, Roger Tapping, Sergei Babayan, Steven Doane, as well as with members of the Escher String Quartet, Zorá Quartet, and the Tokyo String Quartet.
As a teacher, Aaron was formerly an adjunct professor of viola at Cleveland State University and has been a guest teacher and lecturer at the Oberlin Conservatory of Music as well as at the Eastman School of Music.
Most recently, Mr. Mossburg was Principal Viola of the Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra for the past three seasons and was a section violist there starting in 2015. Over the years, Aaron has also performed frequently with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, and The Cleveland Orchestra.
Aaron performs on a viola crafted by Douglas Cox that was completed in 2019.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.