PSO Conductors

PSO Conductors
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
PSO Conductors
Manfred Honeck
Music Director
Manfred Honeck has firmly established himself as one of the world’s leading conductors, whose unmistakable, distinctive and revelatory interpretations receive great international acclaim. He is currently in his 14th season as Music Director of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Read More →
Byron Stripling
Principal Pops Conductor
With a contagious smile and captivating charm, the conductor, trumpet virtuoso, singer and actor Byron Stripling has ignited audiences across the globe. Named Principal Pops conductor of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra beginning with the 2020-2021 season, his baton has led orchestras throughout the United States and Canada. He performs frequently as soloist with the Boston Pops Orchestra, and currently is the artistic director and conductor of the highly acclaimed Columbus Jazz Orchestra.
Read More →
Moon Doh
Associate Conductor
Moon Doh is Assistant Conductor of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, appointed by Music Director Manfred Honeck in October 2021. A recipient of the Takaya Urakawa Foundation Grant awarded to promising young musicians, conductor Moon Doh has found great acclaim in various concert venues across Germany. As the Artistic Director and Conductor of the Flora Symphony Orchestra in Cologne for the past three seasons, he not only led exciting concerts but also worked closely with music pedagogues, reaching an unprecedented number of children through music. Moon's latest collaborations include leading the WDR Funkhausorchester in Germany, Savaria Symphony Orchestra in Hungary, and Pleven Philharmonic in Bulgaria.
Read More →
Jacob Joyce
Associate Conductor
Jacob Joyce is Assistant Conductor of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, appointed by Music Director Manfred Honeck in October 2021. A dynamic and innovative presence on the podium, Joyce is also Resident Conductor of the Indianapolis Symphony, appearing with the ISO several times in the '19-'20 and '20-'21 seasons, in various classical, education, Happy Hour, and community concerts. He also made his debut with several American orchestras in '19-'20, including the Detroit, St. Louis, Houston, and Toledo symphonies. Abroad, Joyce has conducted the London Symphony Orchestra, the NDR-Sinfonieorchester, the hr-Sinfonieorchester Frankfurt, and the Frankfurt Museumsorchester.
Read More →
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.