Samuels Ron

Samuels Ron
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Ron Samuels
Clarinet
Sidney Stark, Jr. Memorial Chair
Ron Samuels was appointed second clarinet of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra by the eminent conductor Mariss Jansons at the start of the 2001-2002 season. He holds the Sidney Stark, Jr. Memorial Chair. He was invited to join the faculty of Duquesne University that same year.  Previously, he was a member of the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra, and he served as principal clarinetist of the Toledo Symphony Orchestra, guest principal clarinetist with both the Minnesota Orchestra and San Diego Symphony, and guest second clarinetist with the Cleveland Orchestra.
Ron Samuels has been described as “a highly captivating musical presence” (
Los Angeles Times
), and that he “performs skillfully and stylishly with verve and impressive musicianship” (Fanfare).
A native of San Francisco, Ron Samuels has enjoyed a richly varied career as a symphonic musician, chamber music and concerto soloist, and as a collegiate professor and master class clinician. He graduated from the University of Southern California where he studied with Mitchell Lurie and where he has frequently returned as a guest lecturer.
Ron Samuels has appeared on chamber music and recital series throughout the United States, Colombia and Argentina. He has also been a featured soloist with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, San Diego Symphony, Wisconsin Chamber Orchestra and the Toledo Symphony Orchestra. He has recorded contemporary chamber music for Opus One Records, Toccata Classics, Hearts of Space Records, and a solo CD for KOCH International Classics featuring an all-French program and highlighted by the world-premiere recording of an early 19th-century concerto by Charles Duvernoy.
Ron Samuels has championed the music of several contemporary composers and has participated in performances, on recordings, and as part of consortiums of several new-work commissions. Among these have been Anthony Iannaccone’s Concertante for Clarinet and Orchestra for which he gave the American premiere; William Albright’s Quintet for Clarinet and Strings; John Harbison’s Concerto for Oboe, Clarinet and Orchestra; and three premier performances of works by the late David Stock – Sea of Reeds for Reed Trio, Anasazi Moonlight for Clarinet, Bassoon and Piano, and Klezmer Dreams for Flute, Clarinet and String Quartet.
Currently on the faculty of Duquesne University, Ron Samuels has been a guest lecturer at the University of Michigan and the Interlochen Arts Academy, and he has given master classes at several schools, including the University of Southern California, Oberlin College, and in Spain, Colombia, Argentina and Chile.
During the summer, Ron Samuels is on the faculty of the ARIA International Summer Academy.  He has also been the principal clarinetist of the Grand Teton Music Festival and the Santa Fe Opera.  He is a Yamaha Artist and Vandoren Artist.  He performs on Yamaha YCL-CSVR clarinets, and Vandoren mouthpieces and reeds.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.