Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Announces 2024-25 Season

Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Announces 2024-25 Season
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MARCH 12, 2024
Contacts: Cally Jamis Vennare, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 412-600-5055,
cvennare@pittsburghsymphony.org
Saul Markowitz, Markowitz Communications, 412-977-8517,
saul@markowitzcommunications.com
MEDIA ASSETS
(PSO Season-At-A-Glance, Artist Photos & Bios, PSO logos) +
24/25 SEASON BROCHURE
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA ANNOUNCES 2024-25 SEASON FEATURING
NEW SOUNDS, A SENSE OF WONDER, OUR CITY'S SHINING STARS & SPECIAL NIGHTS OUT
BNY Mellon Grand Classics offer new sounds from some of today's most compelling voices,
a sense of wonder via world-sized musical works, a spotlight on Pittsburgh's shining stars,
and "Beyond the Music" experiences for a remarkable night out;
4 World Premieres/PSO Commissions, 11 Artist Debuts, and 20 PSO Premieres;
and legendary guest artists including Itzhak Perlman, Emanuel Ax, Lang Lang, and Yo-Yo Ma.
PNC Pops crosses musical genres as diverse as rock, Broadway, soul, holiday favorites & timeless movies.
PITTSBURGH, PA -
The
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
(PSO), Music Director Manfred Honeck, Principal Pops Conductor Byron Stripling,
and
President & CEO Melia Tourangeau
today announced the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's 2024/25 season, inviting audiences to seek experiences and inspiration from a powerful season of legendary artists, new voices, PSO debuts, and world premieres. Subscriptions to the BNY Mellon Grand Classics and PNC Pops are available now; single tickets to the 24/25 season will be available to most concerts beginning July 15. For information, visit
pittsburghsymphony.org
or contact the PSO Box Office at Heinz Hall at
412.492.4900
.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's 2024/25 BNY Mellon Grand Classics season will be the 17th under the direction of Manfred Honeck, internationally acclaimed for his revelatory interpretations. "Music is more than what you hear, it's what you feel. Each of us seeks something special from the experience: exhilaration, peace, comfort, escape, and so much more,"
said Honeck.
"A live concert is an exciting adventure, a moment of shared inspiration and individual discovery. There is a seat for you at Heinz Hall — please join us!"
BIG STARS TAKE CENTER STAGE, ALONGSIDE NEW SOUNDS & PREMIERES
Seek Unrivaled Artistry
>>
In what will be the PSO's 129th season, some of the biggest stars of the classical firmament join Maestro Honeck and the Pittsburgh Symphony at Heinz Hall. On September 21, PSO launches its new season with a dazzling
Opening Night Gala
- a one-night-only concert extravaganza of film music favorites featuring the legendary violinist
Itzhak Perlman
and honoring his commitment to music education. More virtuosic artists follow including pianists
Emanuel Ax, Yefim Bronfman, Lang Lang,
and
Alice Sara Ott,
soprano
Jeanine De Bique
, and the incomparable cellist
Yo-Yo Ma.
Seek New Sounds
>>
In 24/25, Pittsburgh Symphony reinforces its commitment to showcasing the most compelling voices of today when 11 artists make their PSO debuts including pianists
Tom Borrow, Janice Carissa
, and
Vikingur Ólafsson
; cellist
Sheku Kanneh-Mason
, saxophonist
Steven Banks
; violinists
Vadim Gluzman
and
Nemanja Radulovic
; conductors
Elim Chan
and
Lorenzo Viotti
; soprano
Lilit Davtyan
; and baritone
Joshua Hopkins
.
The new sounds continue all season long when Manfred Honeck leads the PSO in 4 world premieres and PSO commissions from composers
Lera Auerbach, Hannah Ishizaki
, and
Reza Vali.
Honeck also creates a new orchestral suite from Strauss's opera,
Arabella
, the latest in his distinguished line of opera arrangements.
Pittsburgh audiences can experience 20 PSO Premieres in the new season, including works by 12 living composers:
Unsuk Chin, Hannah Eisendle, Reena Esmail, Iman Habibi, Adolphus Hailstork, Sophia Jani, Noriko Koide, Samy Moussa, Nina Shekhar, Sean Shepherd,
Maria Huld Markan Sigfúsdóttir
,
and
Carlos Simon.
Seek Our City's Shining Stars
>>
Pittsburgh, too, is a city of stars, and the 24/25 season features many exceptional artists who got their start here, live here, and help put our city on the map. In addition to world premieres by
Hannah Ishizaki
and
Reza Vali
,
Sean Shepherd's
hauntingly beautiful composition,
Sprout
, is heard for the first time at Heinz Hall. Two PSO musicians take center stage as soloists on two inspiring concerts: Principal Flute
Lorna McGhee
and Principal Oboe
Cynthia Koledo DeAlmeida
.
BNY MELLON GRAND CLASSICS HIGHLIGHTS
Seek Wonder through World-Sized Musical Works
>>
In a season of big stars, new works, and world premieres, there's always more room for your favorite classics. Seek wonder through these 24/25 season BNY Mellon Grand Classics highlights including
Mahler's Symphony No. 4, Dvořák's Symphony No. 9 "From the New World," Strauss'
An Alpine Symphony
, Debussy's
La Mer
, Shostakovich's Cello Concerto No. 1, Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 1, Brahms' Piano Concerto No. 2,
and
Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 "Pastoral,"
among others.
"Music expands our lives, our experiences of the world, and our capacity for wonder. This season, we invite audiences to seek new sounds among our PSO premieres, as well as their favorite classics,"
said Melia Tourangeau.
" A remarkable night out at Heinz Hall — when the lights go down and the music begins — makes a memorable date, too! If you want to turn an ordinary night inside out, we recommend immersing yourself in our 'Beyond the Music' experiences, including lobby performances, pre-concert talks, community collaborations, and much more."
PSO DISRUPT & PSO 360
Seek New Experiences >>
New in 2024-25, PSO subscribers receive a free
PSO Disrupt
concert to experience classical music in a new way or share the PSO with friends. Launched in the 2022/23 season, PSO Disrupt concerts offer one-of-a-kind experiences that take concertgoers deeper into the music. Whether you're new to classical music or seeking greater insight into your favorite works, expect moments of fascination guided from the stage. PSO Disrupt concerts also feature a more relaxed atmosphere, shorter lengths, on-stage hosts, and signature cocktails.
"I'm excited that all of our subscribers will experience PSO Disrupt,"
said Manfred Honeck.
"Our PSO artists explore the emotion and story of the music and composers in new ways. It truly is a fascinating musical experience."
PSO 360
continues next season, offering up close and personal experiences with renowned artists on the Heinz Hall stage. Only 200 seats are available for these intimate, limited-capacity concerts. Featured artists include pianist
Tom Borrow
(October 2024), cellist
Sheku Kanneh-Mason
(March 2025), and pianist
Alice Sara Ott
(June 2025).
PITTSBURGH & PNC POPS
Seek Great Musical Moments >>
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's 2024-2025 PNC Pops subscription season will be the fifth under the direction of
PSO Principal Pops Conductor Byron Stripling
, who will conduct three of the seven PNC Pops offerings. The new season spans some of the greatest musical moments of the past seven decades, from the music of the Beatles in
Twist and Shout
to the Broadway dominance of the musical
Chicago in Concert
to the beloved film scores of
Pixar in Concert
.
The PNC Pops season concludes with not-to-be missed concerts including a celebration of the 80's biggest hits in
Total Eclipse of the Chart
, the trailblazing music of singer/songwriters Joni Mitchell, Carole King, and Carly Simon in
Clouds in my Coffee,
and the soulful sounds of Marvin Gaye and James Brown in
Kings of Soul
.
No holiday season is complete without the annual tradition of
Highmark Holiday Pops
, led by Stripling, bringing the warmth and magic of the season alive with the Mendelssohn Choir, Mamie Parris, and other special guests.
"Each year, I can't wait to take center stage with our superstar musicians and bring Pittsburghers together through the power of music,"
said Stripling
. "This season, I invite audiences to seek great musical moments with me as we open our doors wide at Heinz Hall, showcasing diverse genres of music and experiences — from the Beatles to Broadway and the kings of soul to the rich songbooks of era-defining women."
HOLIDAY CONCERTS & MOVIE MAGIC AT THE SYMPHONY
Seek What Speaks to You
>>
In addition to
Highmark Holiday Pops
, the 2024 holiday season offers something for everyone — from the uplifting arias and choruses of
Handel's
Messiah
to the virtuosic sounds of PSO's brass section in
Holiday Brass Spectacular
to film with live orchestra presentations of
Home Alone
and
Love Actually
.
Speaking of movies, nothing compares to seeing your favorite movies on the big screen with a live symphony orchestra playing the score. And if there's any orchestra adept enough to provide the size, sweep, and cinematic scope necessary to do those movies justice, it's the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. In October 2024, PSO presents
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
; in February 2025, Luke Skywalker begins a journey that will change the universe in
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope
, followed by
Lords of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring
in June. Coupled with
Home Alone
and
Love Actually
,
film and music buffs will have their fill of movie magic this season.
SUBSCRIPTION BENEFITS
Seek The Best Seats in the House
>>
When you make music part of your life, you get great perks.
NEW!
In the 2024/25 season, PSO subscribers gain more flexibility than ever before with free, unlimited exchanges between any series - BNY Mellon Grand Classics, PNC Pops, Films with Live Orchestra, Fiddlesticks Family Concerts, and many PSO Special Concerts.
Only subscribers get priority access to tickets,
before
they go on sale to the general public, for PSO concerts featuring classical superstars Yo-Yo Ma, Lang Lang, Emanuel Ax, and Opening Night with Itzhak Perlman.
PSO subscribers enjoy many other prime benefits including same seat privileges, access to the best seats at the best prices in Heinz Hall, savings of up to 20% on additional tickets purchased, discounts on parking and at local restaurants, and much more.
24/25 Season On-Sale Dates:
Subscription Renewal Deadline: April 30, 2024
Single Tickets on Sale: July 15, 2024
Important Exception: Any remaining Yo-Yo Ma single tickets will go on sale January 2025
WITH GRATITUDE
The BNY Mellon Grand Classics concerts are made possible by title sponsorship support from
BNY Mellon
. The 2024-2025 season marks BNY Mellon's 24th consecutive year as title sponsor of the series.
PNC Pops concerts are made possible by title sponsorship support from
PNC
. The 2024-2025 season marks PNC's 24th consecutive year as title sponsor of the series.
Highmark Holiday Pops concerts are made possible by title sponsorship support from
Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield
through the
Highmark Bright Blue Futures
charitable giving and community involvement program. The 2024-2025 season will mark the 17th year for Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield as title sponsor of Holiday Pops.
PSO Disrupt is supported in part by the
Emma Clyde Hodge Memorial Fund
.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is grateful for overall support provided by local and state government entities:
the Allegheny Regional Asset District, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Community and Economic Development,
and the
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts
, a state agency funded by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Diehl Automotive Group
is the official auto dealer of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Fairmont Pittsburgh
is the official hotel of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Delta Air Lines
is the official airline of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
WQED 89.3 FM
is the official media sponsor of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
ABOUT THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Now in its 128th season, the internationally acclaimed
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)
engages audiences of all ages through unparalleled live musical experiences, community collaborations, and educational programming that enrich every life with great music.
The GRAMMY® Award-winning symphony has been led by worldwide acclaimed
Music Director Manfred Honeck
since 2008. Past music directors have included many of the greats, including Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, André Previn, Lorin Maazel, and Mariss Jansons. The Pittsburgh Symphony has a long and illustrious history in the areas of recordings and live radio broadcasts dating back to the 1930s. Lauded as the Pittsburgh region's international cultural ambassador, the orchestra began touring in 1896 and has embarked on scores of domestic and international tours. Heinz Hall, PSO's home located at 600 Penn Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh, is also owned and operated by the Pittsburgh Symphony. Follow the Pittsburgh Symphony online at
pittsburghsymphony.org
, on
Facebook
,
on
Instagram
,
and on
YouTube
.
ABOUT PNC POPS
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra history with popular programming goes back to its early days with Victor Herbert. In the following decades, Pops performances were often billed as "light programs and popular soloists," with guest conductors and stars of the era such as Benny Goodman, Henry Mancini, Ethel Merman, Phyllis Diller, and Doc Severinsen. With the advent of the Marvin Hamlisch era, the venerable Pops series was infused with a new injection of excitement and "razzle-dazzle" as he welcomed memorable programs like "Love Nights" and "Prom Nights," and stars like Bernadette Peters. With the unexpected passing of Hamlisch in 2012, the symphony's Pops programming continued under the baton of leading guest conductors, welcoming star guest artists like Chris Botti.
In 2020, Pittsburgh Symphony appointed
Byron Stripling
as
Principal Conductor for PNC Pops
. Under Stripling's leadership, PNC Pops brings fresh vitality and relevance to orchestral music through contemporary artist collaborations, new arrangements of classic tunes, and films with live orchestra — introducing legions of new fans to the PSO and Heinz Hall each season.
# # #
Press Room
News
2018 Grammys
Press Releases
2023-2024
2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.