Ticket Exchange Policies

Ticket Exchange Policies
Skip to main content
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Click here to go back to the home page
Click here to go back to the home page
Menu
Search
Cart
Calendar
About
Musicians
Music Director
Careers
President & CEO
Advertise
More
Tickets
Subscriptions
Single Tickets
More
Learning
Visit
Seating Charts
Frequently Asked Questions
Dining
Directions
More
Give
Donate Now!
Individual Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Gala
More
Shop
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Calendar
Logout
Login
Promo Code
Cart
Search Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Search
Close Window
Time Out
You have exceeded the time limit and your seats have been released.
Time left to complete order
Ticket Exchange Policies
Subscription Ticket Exchange Policy
Subscribers may exchange their tickets to another concert within their series up to one hour prior to the performance that they are unable to attend. (For example: BNY Mellon Grand Classics subscribers can exchange into any other concert within the BNY Mellon Grand Classics Season.) Exchanges will be completed upon receipt of the original tickets. It is recommended that subscribers exchange tickets as early as possible. Some restrictions and fees may apply. All exchanges are subject to availability.
How to Exchange Subscription Tickets
*
CALL your Patron Services Representative. We will hold tickets at the Heinz Hall Box Office for your requested concert and complete the exchange upon receipt of your original tickets. Tickets must be received within one week of your request and at least 24 hours before the concert date you are unable to attend.
VISIT
pittsburghsymphony.org/myprofile
and click on the Exchange/Donate tab. Exchanges must be completed at least 4 hours before the concert you are unable to attend. Your original tickets will no longer be valid.
VISIT THE HEINZ HALL BOX OFFICE up to one hour prior to the concert you are unable to attend.
Monday
10:00 AM – 6:00 PM. Full-time ticket office staff will work fully remotely on Mondays, and the Ticket Office will be closed to walk-up sales.
Mondays with performances:
10:00 AM - 30 minutes after scheduled showtime.  The ticket office staff will work on site and the ticket office will be open for walk-up sales.
Tuesday to Friday:
10:00 AM – 6:00 PM
Weekdays with performances:
10:00 AM - 30 minutes after scheduled showtime.  The ticket office staff will work on site and the ticket office will be open for walk-up sales.
Saturday:
performance days 12:00 PM – 8:00 PM, closed on non-performance days
Sunday:
performance days 12:00 PM – 4:00 PM, closed on non-performance days
Please note that ticket office hours may be adjusted as necessary to accommodate show times (i.e Speaker’s Series, etc.)
BY MAIL Returned tickets must be received at least 24 hours before the concert date you are unable to attend. Please send tickets and check or money order for exchange fee* to: Ticket Exchange, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
*With the exception of web exchanges, there is a $3 per order fee when exchanging subscription tickets into another weekend.
Can't Use Your Subscription Tickets?
Return your subscription tickets and receive a tax credit! Subscribers may return tickets for resale by calling the ticket turnback line as late as one hour before the concert at 412.392.3333 and leave the following information after you hear the beep:
Your name
Telephone number
Account number
Date and time of the performance on the ticket you wish to turn back
Seat location of each ticket
Order number which is located on the bottom of the ticket
If you need to exchange your tickets into another performance please call the Subscriber & Ticketing Services office at 412-392-4900
The tax credit receipt will be mailed to you in 5 business days
Ticket Refund Policy
No refund requests will be accommodated except in the event of a performance cancellation.  Exchange policies are established individually by presenters.
Ticket policies and COVID-19 Update
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Join Our Email List
Contact
Press Room
Donate
About Us
Careers
Facility Rental
Public Disclosure Documents
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh,
PA
15222
Box Office:
412-392-4900
Hours:
Weekdays
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday ONLY — Ticket Office closed for walk-up sales
Weekdays with performances
10:00 AM to 30 minutes after start of performance
Ticket Office open for walk-up sales
Saturday
12:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Closed on non-performance days
Sunday
12:00 PM to 4:00PM
Closed on non-performance days
Privacy Policy
Conditions of Use
Copyright 2024. All rights reserved.