A Modern, High-tec Home | The Frick Pittsburgh

A Modern, High-tec Home | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
Clayton: A Modern, High-tech Home
Clayton: A Modern, High-tech Home
November 19, 2020
Clayton: A Modern, High-tech Home
Mr. and Mrs. Frick wanted a healthy and comfortable home for their family, and they were able to afford the most attractive land and latest technology available to realize their desire. In
last week’s blog
, we learned that the Homewood area offered wealthy families a neighborhood located away from Pittsburgh’s industry and pollution, coupled with convenient access to the city via rail. The Frick estate was tapped into community utilities, but the family could also enjoy the benefits of living in a setting of woodlands and green space away from the grime and noise of more densely populated neighborhoods. So, the couple settled at Clayton (then known as Homewood). At their January 1883 move-in date, the Fricks had telephone service, a coal-fired boiler for heat, running water from the city, and well water. They also had gas lighting, a gas-fired kitchen range and laundry stove, and a gas-fueled boiler for heating and hot water. But technology for many household functions changed rapidly during the Fricks’ time at Clayton, and household papers indicate that they kept pace with improvements.
Weldon & Kelly invoice for an "American D.O. Family Range" and other items, July 1, 1883.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Chef Spencer Ford in the kitchen at Clayton next to gas stove, c. 1895. Photo by Lewis Stephany.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
At the urging of neighbor George Westinghouse, the house was fully wired for electricity in 1888, upgrading gas lighting to electric lighting. For reference, the White House didn’t install electric lighting until 1891. Even years after Clayton was electrified, electric lights were still new enough to be considered more desirable than reliable, as evident in the dining room chandelier. Purchased in 1892, it was fitted for both electricity (which used the flame-shaped glass bulbs in the photograph) and gas (which used the candlestick-shaped fittings, controlled by turning “keys” at the base of the lamp.) You can spot dual fittings throughout the house—most places you see a lightbulb, you'll find the complimentary cylinder or "key."
Clayton dining room chandelier, 2015.
Letter from G.H. Blaxter & Co. to Henry Clay Frick proposing to wire Clayton for electricity, February 21, 1888.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Extensive plumbing suggests the heating system was converted entirely from coal to natural gas. Clayton had two furnaces in the basement that worked via hot air rising naturally through ductwork before blowers were invented and later installed. Most rooms of the house also have some type of gas fireplace. There are no wood-burning fireplaces in the home.
J.C. Bartlett invoice for gas range and other work, 1898.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archive.
Water filters were used for purifying city and well water. By the late 1880s, the Fricks had made upgrades to the bathrooms as well as improvements to the sewage system. However, as the city water became cleaner and more reliable, the Clayton well became unnecessary for household use.
Mr. Frick's bathroom in Clayton, 2015.
Clayton’s bathrooms featured sinks and bathtubs with hot and cold running water, flushing toilets, and in some cases, sitz or half-baths. These sitz baths and the shower in Mr. Frick’s bathroom all featured special sprays that directed water at selected areas—all in keeping with theories of hydrotherapy that were popular in the late 19th century.
Sitz bath in Mrs. Frick's bathroom in Clayton, 2015.
E.C. Merrill receipt for hot water furnace, March 10, 1902.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
The refrigerators—actually storage areas chilled by big blocks of ice—were repaired or replaced a few times with a large unit installed during the 1892 renovation. The bills for ice reveal that the household could require a couple of tons of ice per month during cooler seasons and three times that much during the summer.
Wickes Refrigerator Company invoice, 1891.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
A battery-operated alarm system of some kind was installed in 1883. It is not clear whether this was a security system or an annunciator (servant signaling device) purchased from a company that sold alarms. Either way, an annunciator was installed with the 1892 upgrades to the house. The box you see in the photo is on the wall in the kitchen, which also served as the household staff’s base of operation. When the small, doorbell-like button was pushed in nearly any room of the house, the bell at the top of the annunciator rang.  At the same time, the correct arrow turned and pointed to the signaling room. Upon hearing the bell, a staff member checked to see which room was calling, and hurried to lend the proper attention. Arrows were reset with the knob at the bottom of the box.
The c. 1892 annunciator at Clayton.
Patrick & Carter invoice for an "automatic alarm," possibly the annunciator, March 12, 1883.
Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
Grandmother Childs' Pin
Dawn Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
My Dearest: Love and Courtship in the Gilded Age
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
People at Play: Sport, Leisure, and Fun in the Gilded Age
Previous Story:
Henry Clay Frick: The Art of Politics and the Politics of Art
Next Story:
A Brief History of Point Breeze: Home of the Fricks
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!