Cast in Chrome | The Frick Pittsburgh

Cast in Chrome | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
A Closer Look at
Cast in Chrome: The Art of Hood Ornaments
A Closer Look at
Cast in Chrome: The Art of Hood Ornaments
May 13, 2021
By:
Kim Cady, Assistant Curator, Car and Carriage Museum
A Closer Look at
Cast in Chrome: The Art of Hood Ornaments
The
new exhibition at the Car and Carriage Museum
features a variety of hood ornaments—small statuettes that once graced car hoods during the golden age of the automobile. What began as a way to monitor engine temperature ultimately became a way for owners to personalize their vehicles and demonstrate their wealth. Inspired by Art Deco motifs and later the great space race, artists and car manufacturers worked together to create objects that evoked the spirit of motoring.
DeSoto Flying Goddess on the DeSoto Deluxe S-10 Sedan, 1942. Chrysler Corporation, Detroit, Michigan. Exhibited courtesy of the NB Center for American Automotive Heritage.
Elegant ladies with wind-blown hair were a common motif of hood ornaments. These flying ladies facing winds head-on found on Cadillacs and Rolls-Royces epitomized grace and beauty. Claude Johnson, managing director at Rolls-Royce in the early twentieth century, commissioned artist Charles Sykes to create an ornament for the brand after he had seen Sykes' creation "the Whisper" on Lord Montagu of Beaulieu's own Rolls-Royce. Johnson wanted an ornament that evoked the grace, sophistication, and quiet speed of the Rolls-Royce. The Spirit of Ecstasy, introduced in 1911, became a standard fitting in the early 1920s. "She has selected road travel as her supreme delight…she is expressing her keen enjoyment with her arms outstretched and her sight fixed upon the distance," said Johnson.
Spirit of Ecstasy, Rolls-Royce of America, Inc., Springfield, Massachusetts, Silver Ghost Salamanca Town Car, 1923. Ornament designed by Charles Sykes (1875-1950). Frick Art & Historical Center, 2002.1.1. Gift of William Penn Snyder III.
Animals were chosen to project speed and stamina, qualities sought after by customers. Edsel Ford selected the agile greyhound, produced by silversmithing firm Gorham Manufacturing Company, for his Lincoln models. Likewise, William Lyons, founder of the Swallow Side Car Company, chose the leaping jaguar for its quickness. Over time, the jaguar's styling changed to reflect the increasing speed of the newer models. Luxury brand Hispano-Suiza chose the stork—la cigogne—a bird known for gliding, which helps preserve its energy in flight. Explorers, conquerors, Native Americans, and gods and goddesses of Greek and Roman mythology were embodied representations of the automobile's power and strength. The Belgian car company Société Anonyme Minerva Motors selected Minerva, the goddess of wisdom, to adorn their radiator caps. In 1921, GM subsidiary Pontiac commissioned the image of the noble Chief Pontiac, an Ottawa leader, to represent the brand. Chief Pontiac personified the characteristics of the American West—perseverance and freedom. Artist William Schnell designed the Chief Pontiac hood ornaments from the mid-1920s through the 1930s. Pontiac would produce forty iterations of Chief Pontiac over thirty years.
La Cigogne (The Stork), La Hispano-Suiza Fábrica de Automóviles, c. 1920s. Ornament designed by Francois Bazin (1897-1956). Collection of Ken Merusi.
Through the 1940s, hood ornaments remained a popular automobile design element and adorned almost every car regardless of price. Those owners who wanted to flaunt their wealth and status, however, opted to attach the most glamorous, custom-made glass ornaments by artist Rene Lalique. Known for his Art Nouveau jewelry, Lalique created Art-Deco-style hood ornaments from the late 1920s through the 1930s, producing 28 commercial ornaments during the period. Coveted collector's items, Lalique ornaments were susceptible to theft in their day. These thefts were so common that Lalique commissioned the Breves Gallery in London to create pedestals for then ornaments, so that owners could remove them from their hoods when not in use and have a proper display in their homes.
Vitesse (Speed), René Lalique, c. 1929. Photo courtesy of The Henry Ford, Dearborn, MI.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
Amanda Dunyak Gillen, Director of Learning & Visitor Experience
Driving Herself: Adelaide Howard Childs Frick's Love of Horses
Kim Cady, Assistant Curator, Car and Carriage Museum
Driving While Black: Researching the Great Migration
How the Fricks Traveled: The
Westmoreland
Previous Story:
A Lead Foot in the Gilded Age
Next Story:
Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!