What Did the Frick Look Like in 1882? | The Frick Pittsburgh

What Did the Frick Look Like in 1882? | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
What did the Frick look like in 1882? Our Landscape App can show you!
What did the Frick look like in 1882? Our Landscape App can show you!
July 2, 2020
What did the Frick look like in 1882? Our Landscape App can show you!
The Frick Pittsburgh as you see it today does not actually reflect the boundaries of the property that the Fricks owned. The estate, like the house itself, was a reflection of the lives and interests of the family as they changed over time.
The Fricks initially purchased a home known as Homewood in 1882 on a 1.43-acre parcel of land. Homewood looked different from Clayton, but forms its core as it is today. The home was remodeled to its current size and general appearance by architect Frederick J. Osterling in 1891.
Clayton, then known as Homewood, c. 1883. Courtesy of The Frick Collection/Frick Art Reference Library Archives.
As opportunities became available to add to their property, the Fricks tended to do so, eventually owning nearly 500 acres encompassing part of what is known today as Frick Park by 1904. Once the Fricks’ main residence was established in New York City in 1905, the family spent less time in Pittsburgh and began to gradually sell parcels of land, reducing the size of the vast estate they had acquired over the years.
Visitors are often surprised to learn that there were neighbors very near the Fricks. To the east of Clayton on Penn Avenue were the Gillespies and the Peacocks, to the south were the Borntraegers—whose Victorian mansion was built about the same time as Clayton and was situated between our current administration building (Haller House) and Clayton until it was torn down in 1984.
Before the neighborhood around the Frick was known as Point Breeze, it was a wooded undeveloped area a considerable distance by carriage from the city. In 1835 Judge William Wilkins bought 650 acres of land in the area. Wilkins was a lawyer and politician of national renown who served in President Tyler’s administration. His property was bounded on the west by Dallas Avenue, on the north by Penn Avenue, on the east by Braddock Avenue, and on the south by Forbes Avenue.
After clearing the heavy woods from a section on Penn Avenue—roughly opposite Murtland Street—Wilkins built his self-designed mansion, Homewood (NOT the Homewood the Fricks would eventually purchase), the centerpiece of his vast estate and outbuildings. The house faced Penn Avenue and was a neighborhood landmark until it was razed in the early 1920s.
Homewood, the residence of William Wilkins, c. 1920. Courtesy of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.
Homewood became known as the heart of Pittsburgh culture and entertaining from the 1830s through Judge Wilkins’ death in 1865. Judge Wilkins’s prominence helped attract attention to the eastern suburbs of Pittsburgh, and, in the prosperous 1860s, development in the area greatly increased, especially after the construction of two nearby rail stations made commuting to the city a much simpler proposition. The boom in growth continued after Wilkins death in 1865, spurred on by the sale of lots parceled out from his estate.
While the vast estate of Homewood is gone, Judge Wilkins left his mark on the area, where streets and neighborhoods bear his name or that of his estate, including Wilkins Avenue, Wilkinsburg, Homewood Avenue, Homewood Cemetery, and the neighborhood of Homewood.
From home, you can learn more about the changing boundaries of the Frick Estate, the neighborhood of Point Breeze, and the history of The Frick Pittsburgh's campus on our landscape app.
When our grounds reopen, use the app to see historic map and photo overlays of what you see, hear audio or read text descriptions of the history of buildings and spaces on campus, and identify the myriad species of trees you encounter (did you know we're an arboretum?).
Our Story
You May Also Like...
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
Grandmother Childs' Pin
Amanda Dunyak Gillen, Director of Learning & Visitor Experience
Memory and Mourning: A Frick History of Homewood Cemetery
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
People at Play: Sport, Leisure, and Fun in the Gilded Age
Previous Story:
Tune into a Summer Fridays performance from Grammy award winner Poogie Bell!
Next Story:
Summer Fridays Kicks Off with Barrels to Beethoven June 26th!
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!