Sportswomen in Focus | The Frick Pittsburgh

Sportswomen in Focus | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
Sportswomen in Focus: Feats of Endurance
Sportswomen in Focus: Feats of Endurance
August 25, 2021
1,000 Miles by Foot, 3,800 by Car
As we present
Sporting Fashion: Outdoor Girls 1800 to 1960
at The Frick Art Museum, we've been researching sportswomen, their accomplishments, and their struggles. The first blog in this new series shares the stories of two historic women who set out on ambitious missions: one to walk a thousand miles in a thousand hours, the other to drive across the continent. Visit the exhibition to learn more about the history of women—and what they wore—in sport, or follow us on Facebook and Instagram for more "Women in Focus" stories.
1,000 Miles by Foot
In 1864, after reading a newspaper account about a physically demanding experiment to walk 1,000 miles in 1,000 hours, Emma Sharp supposedly said, "Wah, I could do that mysen [myself]!"
Emma Sharp, 1864.
The mother of three young children initiated her journey on September 17, walking twice around a one-mile track in half an hour, then resting for an hour and a half at a nearby hotel. This repetitive pace seemed easy enough at first, but soon the mental monotony became as draining as the physical endurance.
Sharp’s appearance became a topic of commentary by the local
Bradford Observer
:
She was dressed in male attire—red and black check coat and inexpressibles [pants], white waistcoat, laced boots, turn-down collar, and scarf,-almost [sic] the only indication of her sex being in her large drooping straw hat, which was ornamented with a white feather and other feminine adornments.
Her notoriety attracted large crowds and protection was soon necessary. Attempts to trip her during the night led Sharp to carry loaded pistols, which she purportedly fired into the air a number of times. Sharp’s feat came to a rousing finale on October 29, 1864, at a quarter past five o’clock in the morning "amidst the vociferous cheering of an immense concourse of spectators and the jubilant strains of the Bowling Brass Band." Though her strength held up during the six weeks that had often been stormy and wet, she never attempted another such escapade.
3,800 by Car
"I was born mechanical, an inheritance from my father," wrote Alice Huyler Ramsey in her 1961 book
Veil, Duster, and Tire Iron.
Alice Ramsey, 1909.
This inheritance served her well when on June 9, 1909, Ramsey departed New York City in the pouring rain as the first female driver attempting to cross the United States. The twenty-two-year-old was accompanied by her husband’s two older sisters Margaret Atwood and Nettie Powell—both in their 40s—and nineteen-year-old friend Hermine Jahns. The three passengers strictly understood that Alice would be doing all the driving.
Nettie Powell, Alice Ramsey, Margaret Atwood, and Hermine Jahns, 1909.
Her automobile was a new Maxwell-Briscoe touring car with a four-cylinder, thirty-horsepower engine advertised as the "gateway to outdoors and health." The vehicle was on loan for publicity to prove that Maxwells were safe enough to transport women all the way to the West Coast.
Alice Ramsey, driver, accompanied by Nettie Powell, Margaret Atwood, and Hermine Jahns, 1909.
In 1909, more than ninety percent of highways were not paved. Hardships were anticipated; the only protections Ramsey and her companions enjoyed were a canvas top, roll-up celluloid windshield, and sheet metal attached beneath the engine. Past Chicago, "Many a time we found our correct route by following [telephone] poles which carried the greater number of wires," noted Ramsey. Her Kodak camera documented the transcontinental expedition.
Alice Ramsey changing the tire on her Maxwell-Briscoe touring car, 1909.
Ramsey and her cohort arrived in San Francisco on August 7 after traversing 3,800 miles in 59 days; only 41 of those days were drivable due to poor weather and mechanical delays. Their best day's mileage was 198. Their worst was four. And the top speed: 42 miles per hour on the Cleveland Parkway.
In 1954, Alice traveled west for good and settled in Covina, California.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
Melanie Linn-Gutowski, Clayton Docent
Crimes of Fashion: Gilded Age Millinery and the Plight of Birds
Amanda Dunyak Gillen, Director of Learning & Visitor Experience
Driving Herself: Adelaide Howard Childs Frick's Love of Horses
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
People at Play: Sport, Leisure, and Fun in the Gilded Age
Previous Story:
Sportswomen in Focus: Bones and Botany
Next Story:
Café Update: Made in Pittsburgh
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!