An Interview with Bouke de Vries | The Frick Pittsburgh

An Interview with Bouke de Vries | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
An Interview with Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
An Interview with Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
January 14, 2021
Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
Dutch contemporary artist Bouke de Vries’s extraordinary artwork,
War & Pieces
, a spectacular 26’ long centerpiece crafted from thousands of white porcelain fragments, is currently installed at The Frick Art Museum.
De Vries derived inspiration for the installation from the sophisticated figural centerpieces that adorned the banquet tables of the European aristocracy during the 17th and 18th centuries, known as
surtout de table
. Typically displayed during the dessert course for special occasions, the figures were initially crafted from sugar, a rare and prized commodity that signaled the wealth of the host. In the 18th century, European porcelain manufactories began to produce more enduring replacements of the sugar forms. These scenes typically replicated allegorical vignettes, mythological figures, or architectural follies. The designs were imbued with symbolic value that the diners would recognize and understand; the classical, historical, and political themes referenced were intended to generate conversation among guests around the table.
De Vries references these traditions with a modern centerpiece assembled around a mushroom cloud explosion that has rendered the table a ravaged battleground. Figures clash across a heap of porcelain ruins, armed with brightly colored contemporary plastic toys—indestructible symbols of today’s waste.
De Vries (Dutch, b. 1960), who lives and works in London, began his career in fashion design before transitioning to ceramics conservation and restoration. Using his skills as a restorer, de Vries resurrects broken porcelain pieces that would otherwise be discarded and uses them to create sculptures that tackle both contemporary and historic issues. Associate Curator of Decorative Arts Dawn Reid Brean had a transatlantic chat with de Vries, who directed the installation of
War & Pieces
via video conference due to the COVID-19 pandemic, about his work.
How did your career as a conservator influence your artistic ambitions? When did you begin creating art?
For years I had looked for a more creative outlet but just couldn’t find something that felt right, not derivative. Then one day I was thinking how writers are advised to make their first book about what they know. I decided to apply that to myself, using broken ceramic objects regarded as worthless because of their damaged condition and creating new pieces with them. That way I could apply all the conservation skills and restoration techniques I had learned, developing and applying them to my art. This was a time when there was a renewed interest in ‘makers’; also, the idea of recycling was coming to the fore.
You’ve worked with the
kintsugi
technique (a Japanese ceramic tradition that uses precious-metal infused lacquer to refurbish cracked or broken pieces). Can you explain how that process relates to your practice today?
I have been familiar with
kintsugi
from my training as a conservator thirty years ago. I love the philosophy: celebrating damage as part of an object’s history rather than trying to hide it; enhancing the beauty of the damage. I have used the technique ever since and now use it in my own works. I have also played with the idea of
kintsugi
, for example, making pieces held together with gold-plated Sellotape.
How would you describe
War & Pieces
? Who is at battle here?
War & Pieces
is an installation based on the
surtout de table
of the 17th and 18th centuries. I used as a reference the grand ball given by the Duchess of Richmond on the eve of the Battle of Waterloo. Instead of a real battle, I staged it on the banqueting table, which is rather less harmful. In part it concerns the futility of war with the atomic mushroom-cloud centerpiece symbolizing total destruction. But I’m still making it beautiful, as I like such contradictions.
Do you have a favorite hidden detail in the centerpiece?
At the base there is a doll’s house sink, a reference to the English expression “everything but the kitchen sink”—well, in this installation that’s included, too.
War & Pieces has toured Europe and Asia and now North America since 2012, and it has been different at every venue. How does it feel to see different institutions interpret your work?
Fascinating—it seems to adapt itself so well to its surroundings. It looks great in an ornate setting like a formally dressed dining room, but it’s also just as good in a minimalist gallery setting.
You’ve traveled a lot for your work. What is your favorite place you have ever visited?
The next place is always the most intriguing, the next step in life’s great adventure.
When you are not creating art, what are you doing?
Not a lot, LOL. It’s so much [a] part of my life. It’s very enjoyable and it’s what I’m happiest doing. The only other thing in my life also all-consuming is my dog, Sonny.
Five words to describe your work?
Please can I have six? Creative. Iconoclastic. Ancient. Modern. Serious. Funny.
A version of this interview first appeared in our Fall / Winter 2020–2021 magazine. View a digital issue of the full magazine
here
.
While The Frick Art Museum is currently closed to the public, you can learn more about
War & Pieces
on
this audio tour
with curator Dawn Reid Brean.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
Luqmon Abdus-Salaam, Guest Blogger
Beautifully Black in Red and Green: A Youth Art Installation
Dawn Reid Brean, associate curator of decorative arts
Dressed to Impress: The Conservation of Mrs. Peacock
Dawn Reid Brean, Associate Curator of Decorative Arts
Explosion in the Green Gallery!
Bouke de Vries: War and Pieces
Comes to the Frick
Previous Story:
The Fricks Take a Trip: Egypt
Next Story:
The Story Behind
The Frick Reflects: Looking Back, Moving Forward
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!