Outreach | The Frick Pittsburgh

Outreach | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Outreach
Art and History Travels
Outreach
Let the Frick come to you through a series of themed programs presented at your site. Each program encourages discussion through the use of slides and touchable artifacts.
Beauty, Hope and Intrigue: The 1893 World's Columbian Exposition
Featured Program
What do Ragtime, the Ferris wheel and George Westinghouse have in common? They all helped to make the nation come alive during the grandest fair in the world. Through this dynamic presentation, the Frick looks back at the fair that defined the Gilded Age as well as set the stage for a new century—the World’s Columbian Exposition, held in Chicago in 1893. Learn what made the fair so significant and how it forever altered the nation. Along the way, discover its many surprising ties to Pittsburgh.
Gilded, Not Golden
Featured Program
Take an armchair version of our signature tour,
Gilded, Not Golden
! The Gilded Age was an era of immense wealth and progress, rapid industrialization, unprecedented immigration, and labor strife. Explore this pivotal time in our nation’s history at Clayton, the only remaining fully preserved Gilded Age mansion in Pittsburgh. Have a Frick educator come to your site for a conversational experience that shares the stories of the Frick family and other Pittsburghers, and considers how the legacy of the Gilded Age continues to affect us today.
Additional Programs
Art and Architecture
Take an armchair tour of the historic house of Henry Clay Frick! Henry was an avid art collector and filled his homes with beautiful paintings and decorative arts. This outreach explores the industries that made the art and architecture of the home possible and the differences between the Frick’s mansion and the art that the majority of people in the Gilded Age would have had access to.
Cemetery Tales: Pittsburgh's Buried Art and History
This program highlights Pittsburgh’s picturesque cemeteries and explores the history of burial grounds in the United States and how they transformed into revered and oft-visited park-like spaces. Colorful slides show the evolution of the art and design of tombstones and memorials, and equally colorful vignettes tell the stories of the notable and interesting Pittsburghers who lie beneath them.
From Horse and Carriage to Horseless Carriage
In the early years of the 20th century, carriages and cars shared the road in Pittsburgh. Images from the Frick’s Car and Carriage Museum provide a look at the transformation of travel during that era, while touchable historic objects offer participants firsthand examination of some of the trappings of transportation from long ago.
Gilded Age Holiday Traditions
Do you know when the first Christmas card was sent or why many people keep a bucket of water handy when they lit their Christmas trees? Explore the origins of these and many other Gilded Age holiday traditions.
In Service: Domestics in the Gilded Age
What was it really like to be domestic worker during the Gilded Age? Viewers of Downtown Abbey and Upstairs Downstairs may enjoy this program, which takes a close look at the daily life of household staff during Pittsburgh’s Gilded Age. Using Clayton, the home of Henry Clay Frick, as a backdrop, this presentation offers a behind-the-scenes perspective of what it took to run the lavish mansions of wealthy American industrialists in Pittsburgh during the late 19th century.
Land of Abundance: The American Landscape of the Gilded Age
Throughout the late 19th century, the American landscape was fundamentally altered by a rapidly industrializing industry. In this presentation, explore the way land and its uses became and remained integral to American identity. Pittsburgh became a major industrial hub during this time, which had consequences on the environment and residents of the city. These legacies have lasting impacts in our city today.
A Well-Appointed Table: Dining at the Turn of the Century
It has been said that dining is the privilege of civilization. A person’s standing in turn-of-the-century society could be measured by the way they took their meals. This presentation takes a look at the ritual act of eating across cultures while paying special focus to America’s Gilded Age—a time when dining reached a pinnacle of refinement.
Schedule a Program
Contact
For further details or to schedule a program contact Dalena Collins, Learning and Interpretive Coordinator, at 412-342-4087 or
dcollins@thefrickpittsburgh.org
.
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!