Employment | The Frick Pittsburgh

Employment | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Employment
Join Our Creative Team
Join a talented team of employees who daily draw inspiration from the Frick’s world-class art exhibitions, rich, local history and beautiful grounds and gardens. If you’d like to find your passion and are ready to take that next step, apply for one of the opportunities listed below.
How to Apply
Please send a cover letter and resume by applying directly through JazzHR.
Apply Today
Need technical or accessibility assistance with the application process?
Applicants with a disability who require a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application or hiring process may contact our human resources team for assistance at
HR@TheFrickPittsburgh.org
The Frick Pittsburgh embraces diversity as a proposition that is central to the organization’s mission. In building and serving diverse audiences, the Frick affirms and supports diversity of persons and ideas both within the organization and the communities it serves.
Available Openings
Marketing & Communications Manager (Full-time)
Summary:
The Marketing & Communications Manager advances the Frick's mission and values by working closely with the Director of Marketing & Communications, other members of the Marketing & Communications Department, and colleagues across the Frick to plan and implement marketing, communications, and public relations activities. They implement marketing and communications campaigns that may include paid and earned media, social media, and institutional communications and marketing activities.
Must have a commitment to fostering a workplace culture of Equity and Inclusion.
Reports to:
Director of Marketing & Communications
Hours:
Primarily Monday – Friday, 9:00-5:00, some evening and weekend work required.
Status:
Full
-time, exempt with benefits
Annual Salary:
$44,000 - $55,500, depending on experience
Responsibilities:
I. New and Traditional Media (60%)
Effectively manages media relationships and vendors in support of collaboratively developed marketing and communications strategy.
Develops and distributes all institutional, exhibition, and program-related press releases.
Fulfills media-related inquiries including facilitating exhibition tours, scheduling interviews, and acting as a brand representative.
Supervises on-site media visits and filming.
Plans, manages, and executes Media and Ambassador Preview events coinciding with exhibition openings.
Drives social media and online engagement through strategy development and content creation.
Writes engaging messages, storylines, and content for a variety of communications, media and channels, including online content, email, social media, web, and collateral to grow awareness of and drive visitation to the Frick.
Assists in the development and management of video and image content
Curates content for, creates, and manages weekly institutional e-newsletter, as well as emails to targeted audience subgroups.
II. Admin (30%)
Works with the Director of Marketing & Communications to plan and execute marketing and communications efforts to create awareness and achieve annual attendance goals.
Uses analytics, including the creation and interpretation of visitor surveys, to evaluate campaign effectiveness and enhance future programs.
Builds and maintains a working knowledge of all departments and program areas. Serves as a highly effective link between program teams and marcomm for strategy, ideation, and execution.
Collaborates across the organization to ensure communications are cohesive, meet brand standards and convey a consistent story to both internal and external stakeholders.
Develops high-level project plans and timelines. Cultivates a positive and productive workplace through communication, vision, teamwork, and commitment.
With the Director, develops and implements the annual marketing and communication budgets; manages expenses to budget.
III. Other (10%)
Attends quarterly Marketing & Communications committee meetings as recorder.
Fulfill staff committee duties.
Support other efforts and complete other duties as assigned.
Qualifications:
Committed to fostering a workplace culture of inclusion and belonging.
Two or more years working experience in a communications-related field, knowledge of WordPress, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Hootsuite, Mail Chimp and Adobe Creative Suite and related applications required.
Demonstrated brand management, campaign marketing, and content creation experience.
Demonstrated strong writing and editing skills with ability to develop social media content, press releases, emails, and other written collateral.
Knowledge of museum operations, the arts industry, arts marketing a plus.
Proficiency with Windows Office suite required.
Excellent organizational and planning skills with attention
Curious, empathetic, and collaborative with ability to work independently or as part of a team.
Excellent interpersonal and customer service skills; pleasant phone manner a must.
Bachelor’s degree in related field OR comparable work experience.
Clearance of a background check.
The Frick Pittsburgh is an Equal Opportunity Employer that is committed to fostering a workplace culture of accessibility, inclusion, diversity, and racial equality and urges all qualified diverse applicants to apply.
Museum Experience Associate (Part-time)
Summary:
The Museum Experience Associate (MEA) provides visitors to the Frick with a superior experience by providing excellent customer service. MEA staff covers the store, site scheduling, and all admission desk duties, including the accurate processing of reservations for tours, The Café, and education programs as well as appropriately greeting and orienting visitors to the site.  The MEA will be joining the Frick during an exciting period of renewal and change, as the museum seeks to become an actively anti-racist organization that can serve as a vital resource for our entire community.
Must have a commitment to fostering a workplace culture of Equity and Inclusion.
Reports to:
Museum Experience & Store Manager
Hours:
Must be available Sunday – Saturday with the ability to work weekends and evenings.
Status:
Part-time, non-exempt
Hourly Rate:
$14.33
Responsibilities:
Cheerfully answer main phone line, provide site-specific information and direct calls
Schedule all tours, exhibition admission, Café and Frick program reservations
Effectively engage visitors in the Museum Store and assist with their merchandise selections and actively suggest the pairing of other items to maximize sales
Actively promote and sell memberships and participate in achieving membership selling goals and promote current and upcoming site-wide events and programs
Welcome and orient visitors to the site while maintaining excellent customer service
Open and close admissions and store registers and handle daily paperwork
Handle cash, credit card, and special transactions quickly and efficiently
Maintain a working knowledge of various aspects of the point of sale (POS) system; troubleshoot hardware and reservation software and respond to non-routine situations when necessary
Maintain overall Visitor Center appearance and ensure that merchandise displays are always fresh and clean by daily re-stocking and dusting the shelves, cabinetry and product
Handles other duties as requested by management
.
Qualifications:
Possess excellent interpersonal and customer service skills with the ability to deal effectively with visitors and staff – pleasant phone manner a must
Prior retail sales, cash handling and competency with POS or reservation systems experience required
Self-motivated, adaptable, and accepting of challenges; strong problem-solving skills
Exceptional organizational skills with attention to detail
Ability to handle a variety of responsibilities under pressure
A commitment to fostering a workplace culture of diversity and inclusion
Ability to safely lift up to 25 pounds unassisted, climb ladders, and stand for extended periods of time
Clearance of a background check
The Frick Pittsburgh is an Equal Opportunity Employer that is committed to fostering a workplace culture of accessibility, inclusion, diversity, and racial equality and urges all qualified diverse applicants to apply.
Café Service Staff (Part-time)
Summary:
Through excellent customer service, provide visitors to The Café at the Frick with an excellent dining experience.  Become familiar with and perform all aspects of the front side of the Café; this includes: cashier, host, server, busser, sales, stocking, opening/closing, and cleaning.  Some additional back of house duties also required.  The Café Service Staff will foster positive internal and external relationships, bring energy, enthusiasm to the café and work in a collaborative environment in order to maintain and grow the reputation of the Café. The Café Service Staff will be joining the Frick during an exciting period of renewal and change, as the museum seeks to become an actively anti-racist organization that can serve as a vital resource for our entire community.
Must have a commitment to fostering a workplace culture of Equity and Inclusion.
Reports to:
Café Manager
Hours:
Tuesday through Friday, daylight, no set schedule. Some weekend and evening hours.
Status:
Part-time, hourly
Hourly Rate:
$14.33, plus shared tips
Responsibilities:
Become familiar with daily features, lunch and dessert items
Assist with food preparation
Have a working knowledge of the current menu and be able to explain all menu items to guests
Service tables in a professional efficient and friendly manner
Welcome guests, answer questions and direct guests to counter to order
Working knowledge of POS systems, ability to process payments and handle cash
Opening and closing sidework
Assist with dishwashing
Cleaning - clean kitchen and front of house
Keep beverage areas stocked and organized
Service bar duties
Stock supplies and inform the Café Manager if low on any items
Work with the Café Manager to handle any problems arising with visitors to ensure customer satisfaction
Treat visitors and colleagues with respect and courtesy at all times
Other duties, as requested by management
Qualifications:
Commitment to fostering a workplace culture of inclusion and belonging, anti-racist values and education practices
Possess an enthusiastic, professional and positive attitude
Serving experience preferred
Flexibility in working a varied schedule
Excellent interpersonal skills
Clearance of a criminal background check
Become RAMP and servsafe certified if not already (paid by Frick)
The Frick Pittsburgh is an Equal Opportunity Employer that is committed to fostering a workplace culture of accessibility, inclusion, diversity, and racial equality and urges all qualified diverse applicants to apply.
Staff Contact Info
Media Inquiries
Employment
Accessibility
Partnerships
Hours & Admission
Frick Employees Enjoy
Competitive salary and benefits
Open and collaborative environment
Discounts in both The Museum Store and The Café at the Frick
Free on-site parking
Employee Assistance Program
Free museum privileges and guest passes to share with family and friends
Regularly scheduled employee appreciation events, and much more
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!