Permanent Collection | The Frick Pittsburgh

Permanent Collection | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Exhibitions
Permanent Collection
Overview
The Permanent Collection
In the galleries at The Frick Art Museum you will find fabulous examples of early Renaissance Italian painting; rare French and Flemish tapestries; Renaissance and Baroque bronze statuettes; eighteenth-century French painting, furniture and decorative arts; spectacular Chinese porcelains; and masterpieces by artists such as Rubens, Boucher, Gainsborough and Fragonard.
The collection at the Frick includes objects purchased by Henry Clay Frick and his daughter Helen, as well as museum purchases and gifts. The Italian gallery features exceptional examples of early Renaissance painting, including Sienese masters Sassetta and Giovanni de Paolo. Also on view in the Italian gallery are a selection of bronzes from the collection purchased In 1916, by Henry Clay Frick from the estate of financier J. P. Morgan. Over 40 of these bronzes are part of the collection of The Frick Pittsburgh, and others are held by The Frick Collection, New York.
The green gallery, with silk velvet wall coverings and crystal chandeliers, was designed to complement the museum’s collection of French painting, with works by Boucher, Fragonard and Pater installed with fine examples of French furniture of the period.
Program Information
Permanent Collection
Location:
The Frick Art Museum
Admission:
Admission to the Permanent Collection galleries is free.
Share this event series:
Other highlights of this room include a major portrait by Peter Paul Rubens, a major Venetian scene by Francesco Guardi, and an oil on copper attributed to Antoine Le Nain.
The museum’s Jacobean room, with English oak paneling,  is typically hung with English artworks of the 18th century—including a rotating selection of mezzotints, a fabulous example of a conversation piece by English artist Arthur Devis, and portraits by English masters like Hogarth, Gainsborough, and Reynolds.
The tapestry collection, which hangs in the museum’s rotunda, features examples of French Loire valley weaving in the mille-fleurs tradition as well as the complex, painterly weavings that made Brussels a famed center of Renaissance tapestry production. Rest on the Flight into Egypt is a particularly fine example of an intact devotional weaving of exceptional quality.
Note: Objects on view change periodically and not all of the collection is on display at any one time.
Exhibition Highlights
Antoine Le Nain (French, c. 1599-1648), The Blessing, early 17th century. Oil on copper. Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1971.9.
attributed to Severo Calzetta of Ravenna (Italian, Padua, active 1496 d. before 1538), Venus with Apple, Gilt bronze, Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1991.2.
Francesco Guardi (Italian, 1712-1793), View on the Grand Canal at San Geremia, Venice, 1760-1765. Oil on canvas, Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1984.26.
Francois Boucher (French, 1703-1770), Pastorale: A Peasant Boy Fishing, 1732. Oil on canvas. Frick Art & Historical Center, 1972.3, Pittsburgh
Giovanni di Paolo (Sienese, 1398-1483), Nativity, c. 1450. Tempera on panel, Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1973.30.
Martin Carlin (Germany, c. 1730-France, 1785), Writing Table, c. 1780. Mahogany, satinwood, oak, porcelain, ormolu and leather. Frick Art and Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1985.325.
Rest on the Flight into Egypt, Tapestry, Flemish, early 16th century. Wool, silk, silver and gold threads, 92 x 85 in. Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1970.28.
Stefano di Giovanni called Sassetta (Sienese, c. 1400-1450), The Virgin of Humility Crowned by Two Angels, c. 1438. Tempera on panels, Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1973.29.
Thomas Gainsborough (English, 1727-1788), Portrait of Sir Richard Brinsley Sheridan, c. 1785. Oil on canvas. Frick Art & Historical Center, Pittsburgh, 1984.25.
It's free to visit The Frick Pittsburgh.
Plan your visit
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!