Treasured Ornament | The Frick Pittsburgh

Treasured Ornament | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Exhibitions
Treasured Ornament: 10 Centuries of Islamic Art
Treasured Ornament
10 Centuries of Islamic Art
Tickets Now On Sale!
Treasured Ornament: 10 Centuries of Islamic Art
illuminates the expertly crafted and exquisitely ornate objects that anchored everyday life in Muslim civilizations in Southwest Asia, Northern Africa, and beyond, including Iran, Egypt, India, Syria, and Turkey. Featuring fine glassware, ceramics, metalwork, painting, weaving, and much more,
Treasured Ornament
evokes the rich history of the Islamic world, and the shared human experiences that bind us, transcending borders and boundaries.
WQED's Voice of the Arts
Chief Curator and Director of Collections, Dawn Brean, and Director of Learning and Visitor Experience, Amanda Gillen, spoke with WQED's Emily Brunner about
Treasured Ornament
and the
unique exhibition programming coming to the Frick this autumn
.
Treasured Ornament Resources
Enhance your
Treasured Ornament
experience by taking a deeper dive into the art, themes, and history of the exhibition. Visit our resources page for more information about further reading, interactive maps, and exhibition texts.
Visit The Resources Page
Acknowledgements
The Pittsburgh presentation is a collaborative institutional effort led by Dawn Brean, chief curator and director of collections along with Lauryn Smith, assistant curator; Morgan Lawrence, manager of collections and exhibitions; Bella Hanley, collections and exhibitions assistant; and Christina Cichra, collections technician.
The exhibition was curated by Christopher Hatten and based on research published in the accompanying catalogue written by Walter B. Denny, Distinguished Professor of the History of Art and Architecture at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and Sue D'Auria, former associate curator at the Huntington Museum of Art. Glenna Barlow, Curator of Education at the Columbia Museum of Art in South Carolina, generously shared the interpretive plan, didactics, and labels from CMA's 2023 presentation of the exhibition.
The Frick is grateful to Sahar S. Hosseini, PhD, Assistant Professor of the History of Art and Architecture and Yasmine Flodin-Ali, PhD, Assistant Professor of Modern Islam and Race in the Department of Religious Studies, both at the University of Pittsburgh, for reviewing and refining the exhibition texts for the Frick Pittsburgh's display.
Thank you to the partners, performers, and artists making our exhibition programming possible: Luqmon Abdus-Salaam, Benjamin Aysan, Carpe Diem String Quartet, Jim Cunningham, Fann Club at the University of Pittsburgh, Chad Hunter and the Pittsburgh Silent Film Society, Ishtar Vintage Bellydance Band, Mahtab Nadalian, Dr. Dariush Saghafi, Serap Uzunoglu, Reza Vali, and Khadijat Yussuf.
Browse the calendar of upcoming exhibition events here
.
Thank you to the talented team of art handlers who installed the exhibition: Scott Hunter, Duncan MacDiarmid, Kate Pirilla, and Briget Shield. Additional thanks to EngineHouse, Markantone Painting, and graphic designer Jennie Denton for helping to transform the galleries.
Additional thanks are due to our colleagues at the Aga Khan Museum (Toronto) for leading a Frick all-staff learning opportunity on the exhibition's context and themes.
Program Information
Treasured Ornament: 10 Centuries of Islamic Art
Dates:
August 17, 2024 - October 20, 2024
Location:
Frick Art Museum
Admission:
Experience
Treasured Ornament
from August 17 through October 20, 2024. Tickets are not timed. You may enter the exhibition at any time between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. during the day of your ticket.
Members: Free
General Admission: $15
Seniors 65+, Students w/ ID, Military/Veterans, Adults w/ Disabilities, Teachers: $12
Museums for All (EBT): $1
Youth 17 & under:$5
Free admission to
Treasured Ornament
is available for Allegheny County library card holders through RAD Pass at
radpass.org
.
Get Tickets
Members are encouraged to call the Members Hotline at 412-342-4086
Share this event series:
Treasured Ornament: 10 Centuries of Islamic Art
is organized by the
Huntington Museum of Art
and is toured by International Arts & Artists, Washington, DC.
Treasured Ornament: 10 Centuries of Islamic Art
is made possible in part by the generous support of
Kirk J. Johnson and Henry W. Krakovsky, Jr.
Gallery
Browse through a selection of  pieces on display in
Treasured Ornament: 10 Centuries of Islamic Art
.
(Header) Iran,
Tile
, 14th century, underglaze-painted fritware. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Tourma. Huntington Museum of Art (West Virginia).
Egypt or Syria,
Bowl
, 19th century, brass with silver and copper inlay. Gift of Drs. Joseph and Omayma Touma and family.
Iran, Qajar,
Covered Vessel
, c. 1860, brass. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Touma.
Iran,
Vessel
, 11th -12th century, glass. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Touma.
Filippo Bartolini,
Preparing for Prayer
, c. 1875, watercolor on paper. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Touma.
Iran,
Celestial Globe
, 19th century, brass. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Touma.
Syria,
Tile
, 17th century, underglaze-painted fritware. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Touma.
Tabriz, Iran,
Rug
, late 19th century, silk. Gift of Drs. Joseph and Omayma Touma and family.
Iran, Qajar,
Huqqa Base
, 19th century, copper and painted enamel. Gift of Drs. Joseph B. and Omayma Touma.
Iran, Qajar,
Helmet
, 1850-1900, steel damascened with gold and silver. Gift of Drs. Joseph and Omayma Touma and family.
It's free to visit The Frick Pittsburgh.
Plan your visit
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!