Accessibility | The Frick Pittsburgh

Accessibility | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Tickets
membership
Home
Accessibility
Accessibility
The Frick welcomes all visitors and strives to provide the best possible experience for everyone who visits the site. If you have questions about accessibility or navigating the site that are not addressed below please contact us at 412-371-0600 or by email at
info@TheFrickPittsburgh.org.
Parking
ADA compliant parking is available in our Reynolds Street parking lot both near The Frick Art Museum and the Grable Visitors' Center.
Navigating the Site
Visiting the various museums on site requires moving from building to building throughout our 10-acre campus. (View a site map
here
.) Tours of Clayton require walking from the Grable Visitor Center to Clayton, where a lift is available for first floor access.
Estimated walk times from the Grable Visitor Center to buildings on the Frick site follow:
Grable Visitor Center to The Frick Art Museum: estimated walk time 2 – 4 minutes
Grable Visitor Center to Education Center: estimated walk time 1 minute
Grable Visitor Center to Car and Carriage Museum: estimated walk time 1 minute
Grable Visitor Center to The Café at The Frick:  estimated walk time 1 – 2 minutes
Grable Visitor Center to Greenhouse : estimated walk time 1 – 2 minutes
Grable Visitor Center to Clayton:  estimated walk time 3 – 5 minutes
Wheelchairs and Motorized Scooters
A drop off area for wheelchairs is located along Homewood Avenue, near the Car and Carriage Museum.
Wheelchair accessible buildings include The Frick Art Museum, the Café, the Car and Carriage Museum, the Grable Visitor Center, the Education Center, and the first floor of Clayton. We also welcome personal wheelchairs, walkers, and motorized scooters. Please note that motorized scooters greater than 30" wide cannot navigate the doorways of Clayton. A narrated video tour of Clayton’s second floor is provided for visitors unable to visit the second floor.
Wheelchairs are available for visitor use on a first-come, first-served basis at the Grable Visitor Center, The Frick Art Museum and the Car and Carriage Museum.
Restrooms
Accessible restrooms are available in the Grable Visitor Center, The Frick Art Museum, the Car and Carriage Museum and the Education Center. Restrooms are not available in Clayton.
Private all gender restrooms are located in the Grable Visitor Center, the Education Center, and the Café. Opened in April of 2024, the Frick Art Museum now features an Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)-compliant restroom — an all-gender accessible family space intended to better serve Frick visitors of all ages, identities, and abilities
Doors
Power-assist doors can be found at the Frick Art Museum, the Grable Visitor Center, the Car and Carriage Museum, and the Community Room.
Families
The Scott Family Infant Care Room
New at the Frick, the Scott Family Infant Care Room was designed as a space for caregivers to tend to their young children during their visit in comfort and privacy. Located in the Grable Visitor Center, the Scott Family Infant Care Room is decorated cheerfully with custom wallpaper designed by local artist Clinton van Gemert, and features a cozy armchair, white noise machine, changing table, and toys for little ones to enjoy.
Baby changing stations are located in the Grable Visitor Center, The Frick Art Museum and the Car and Carriage Museum.
Strollers are welcome in all buildings on site except Clayton.
Service Animals
Service animals are permitted in all public areas of the museum. Service animals are trained to perform specific tasks for an individual with a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Comfort animals, therapy animals, companion animals, or emotional support animals are not service animals as defined by the ADA and are not allowed. The ADA guidelines regarding service animals can be accessed
here.
Aides
Professional aides accompanying visitors are admitted to Clayton and to ticketed exhibitions at no charge (one aide per guest). To make a reservation for a professional aide, please call us at 412-371-0600 in advance of your visit.
Sign Language
American Sign Language interpreters are available at no charge for tours and programs with advance notice to ensure availability. Requests for an ASL interpreter must be made at least two weeks in advance of the date of the visit by contacting Kelsie Torrenti Paul, Manager of Interpretation and Engagement, at 412-342-4063 or
kpaul@thefrickpittsburgh.org
.  Payment for the tour or program must be made in advance.
Large Print
Large print labels are available for visitors to special exhibitions.  Labels can be requested at the admissions desk in The Frick Art Museum.
Membership
The Frick offers an ADA Membership for $30 per year for one person and one aide. For a full list of benefits or to join, visit our Membership page
here
or call the membership office at 412-342-4086 or
email us
.
Overview
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transportation
Plan Your Visit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Accessibility Coordinator
The Frick’s accessibility coordinator is Amanda Dunyak Gillen, Director of Learning & Visitor Experience. She can be reached at agillen@TheFrickPittsburgh.org or 412-342-4072.
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!