Bones and Botany | The Frick Pittsburgh

Bones and Botany | The Frick Pittsburgh
Toggle navigation
Blog
Calendar
Equity
Membership
Rentals
Café
Shop
Donate
Plan Your Visit
Visit
Hours & Admission
Today at the Frick
Directions & Transit
Site Map
Accessibility
Tours
Group Visits
Field Trips
Explore The Frick
Plan Your Visit
See and Do
See and Do
The Frick Grounds
Today at the Frick
Programs and Events
Events By Age Group
Make the most of your visit
Plan Ahead
Learn
Learn
For Educators
Family Programs
Workshops
Adult Programs
Summer Camps
Outreach
Explore from anywhere
Virtual Museum
Exhibitions
Exhibitions
Current Exhibitions
Upcoming Exhibitions
Past Exhibitions
Virtual Exhibitions
Opening March 1
Kara Walker
Collection
Support
Membership
The Frick Societies
Reciprocal Museums
Donate
Legacy Planning
Gifts of Stock
Qualified Charitable Distributions
Corporate Giving
EITC
Our Supporters
Home
Stories
Sportswomen in Focus: Bones and Botany
Sportswomen in Focus: Bones and Botany
September 22, 2021
Sportswomen in Focus: Bones and Botany
As we present
Sporting Fashion: Outdoor Girls 1800 to 1960
at The Frick Art Museum, we've been researching sportswomen, their accomplishments, and their struggles. This week, a look at two true outdoor girls.
Mary Anning
"The extraordinary thing in this young woman is that she has made herself so thoroughly acquainted with the science that the moment she finds any bones she knows to what tribe they belong." - Lady Harriet Silvester on Mary Anning, 1824
Mary Anning was one of ten children, but only she and an older brother lived to adulthood. Anning’s survival was an especially remarkable feat given when she was fifteen months old a woman holding her was killed instantly when the tree they were standing under was struck by lightning. Without a formal education, Anning used her innate skills to literally carve a profession out of the bedrock in the emerging science of paleontology—the study of life forms from extinct geologic periods.
Mary Anning and her dog Tray in Lyme Regis, England, painted by an unknown artist before 1842.
In 1812, Anning gained notoriety after excavating her first ichthyosaur (a four-finned reptile) along the steep cliffs of Lyme Regis, England. In 1828, she found a flying pterodactyl. The scientific community had never before seen these fossil types. Every morning Anning clambered over miles of shorelines in hopes that storm waves uncovered salvageable remains. Her successful discoveries garnered much needed revenue; the most complete fossils were acquired by natural history museums in England, France, and the United States.
A rare tribute was bestowed upon her in 1846, when she became an Honorary Member of the Geological Society of London—an organization that did not officially allow female membership. Less than a year later, Anning died of breast cancer at the top of her career and proud of her accomplishments. "I am well known throughout the whole of Europe," she said.
Marianne North
Marianne North, photographed by Julia Margaret Cameron in Sri Lanka, 1877.
Marianne North spent an idyllic childhood drawing, singing, and riding horses. Her father, Frederick North, a Liberal Member of Parliament, delighted in taking his young daughter to the Botanic Gardens at Kew and to the Horticultural Society’s Gardens at Chiswick. North’s interest in botany grew in part because of access to her father’s three greenhouses: one for orchids, another for temperate plants, and a third for vines and cuttings. She tended the vegetation and documented its various structures. On her father’s passing in 1869, she inherited a substantial estate, which funded her explorations around the world.
Marianne North painting a boy in Ceylon, 1877.
From 1871 to 1885, North—who never married—visited sixteen countries on five continents. Indefatigable, she sought new vegetal specimens to paint at each destination. North reminisced about one trip to Brazil in 1872: "My dress was as good as any could be for such riding, namely, a short linsey petticoat and a long woolen waterproof cloak with sleeves. I had besides a light silk waterproof rolled up and hung on my pommel for extra wet hours, and my old black straw hat on my head."
In 1879, Marianne offered 627 botanical oil paintings to Kew Gardens, along with funds to construct a gallery. The Marianne North Gallery opened on June 7, 1882, and was extended the following year to accommodate additional donations that would eventually total 848 artworks. This legacy of extensive travels also formed an important educational opportunity for the public, most of whom would never venture outside Great Britain to see such plants in their native habitats.
The Wild Tamarind of Jamaica with Scarlet Pod and Barbet
, painted by Marianne North in 1872.
Nepenthes Northiana,
A New Pitcher Plant from the Limestone Mountains of Borneo
, painted by Marianne North ca. 1876.
Visit the exhibition
to learn more about the history of women—and what they wore—in sport, or follow us on Facebook and Instagram for more "Women in Focus" stories.
Our Story
You May Also Like...
An Interview with Bouke de Vries on
War & Pieces
How the Fricks Traveled: The
Westmoreland
The Fricks Take a Trip: Egypt
Previous Story:
Sport, Fashion, and Gender Equity: Conversations with Women and Girls Foundation
Next Story:
Sportswomen in Focus: Feats of Endurance
Keep up to date with news and events from The Frick Pittsburgh newsletter.
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hours:
Monday: Closed
Tuesday-Sunday: Gardens and grounds open 8 AM-Dusk.
View detailed hours
412-371-0600
info@thefrickpittsburgh.org
Contact
Staff
Media Inquiries
Employment
Rentals
Partnership Programs
Membership
About
Our Mission
Annual Report &
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Trustee Portal
Accessibility
Equity
Land Acknowledgement
Press Releases
Photo Policy
Trustee Login
The Frick legacy
The Frick Family
Historic Home & Gardens
Copyright 2018 | The Frick Pittsburgh |
Website by Blue Archer
×
Customer Login
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
Forgot Password?
×
Forgot Password
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!
×
My Account
Enter your Username and Password to login to your account. Don't have an account?
Contact Us!